

********

**Council Bill Number: 113706**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120406**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City's Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development; authorizing acceptance of grant funds from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for Consolidated Plan programs; increasing appropriations in the 2001 budget for activities under the Community Development Block Grant, HOME, and Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS programs; revising expenditure allowances in the 2001 budget for various funds and departments; amending the 2001 Action Plan component of the Consolidated Plan; allocating additional 2001 grant funds and unused funds from prior years; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 18, 2001
   
**Vote:** 6-0 Nicastro out (Excused: Pageler and Wills)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 21, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 21, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 11, 2001
   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services, Education and Civil Rights
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** COMMUNITY-DEVELOPMENT-BLOCK-GRANTS, HOMELESS, SHELTERS, GRANTS, SOCIAL-SERVICES, US-GOVERNMENT, HOUSING, DEPARTMENT-OF-HOUSING-AND-URBAN-DEVELOPMENT, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, EMERGENCY-HOUSING, AIDS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 120164; Res. 30237

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ____________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City's Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development; authorizing acceptance of grant funds from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for Consolidated Plan programs; increasing appropriations in the 2001 budget for activities under the Community Development Block Grant, HOME, and Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS programs; revising expenditure allowances in the 2001 budget for various funds and departments; amending the 2001 Action Plan component of the Consolidated Plan; allocating additional 2001 grant funds and unused funds from prior years; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 WHEREAS, as authorized by Resolution 30237 adopted October 9, 2000, the City submitted its 2001 Action Plan as part of its 2001-2001 Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development and thereby applied for funds available from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for a set of prioritized services for community development, human services, economic development, and housing, comprised of four separate entitlement grants, the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), the HOME program, Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) and the Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG); and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120165, signed November 19, 2000, adopted the City Budget for fiscal year 2001 and included appropriations in several City departments based on estimates of the grant awards for the four HUD fund sources listed above; and

 WHEREAS, the grant awards which have been received from HUD for the CDBG, HOME and HOPWA programs are larger than anticipated, while the award for ESG is slightly lower; and

 WHEREAS, the authorization levels for these grants made in the 2001 Budget need to be adjusted to match approved 2001 funding for the grant activities; and

 WHEREAS, funds from the Community Development Block Grant are deposited into the Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund from which funds are drawn to reimburse expenditures made by various departments and therefore the appropriation levels in the Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund and in the administering departments require adjustment; and

 WHEREAS, funds from the Emergency Shelter Grant and HOPWA grant are deposited into the Human Services Operating Fund and therefore the appropriation levels in the Human Services Operating Fund require adjustment; and

 WHEREAS, funds from the HOME Grant are deposited into the HOME Fund from which funds are drawn to reimburse expenditures made by the Office of Housing and therefore the appropriation levels in the Office of Housing Operating Fund require adjustment;

 WHEREAS, the table of activities in the 2001 Action Plan must be revised to reflect revised 2001 funding levels, to incorporate unused funds from prior years, and to revise allocations to programs and projects; Now, Therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Director of the Human Services Department and recommended by the Mayor, the Mayor or his designee is hereby authorized to enter into agreements for financial assistance from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the following grant programs up to the maximum amounts listed below:

 Community Development Block Grant $15,282,000

 HOME 4,358,000

 Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS 1,522,000

 Emergency Shelter Grant 520,000

 The Mayor or his designee is authorized to execute and deliver for and on behalf of The City of Seattle agreements in such counterparts as may be necessary to accept the financial assistance. Community Development Block Grant funds, when received, shall be deposited into the Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund (17810). HOME funds, when received, shall be deposited into the HOME Fund (16490). Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS funds and Emergency Shelter Grant funds, when received, shall be deposited into the Human Services Operating Fund (16200). The Mayor or his designee is further authorized to execute and deliver such other documents relating to the agreements as may be required in connection therewith. The agreements and such other documents shall be in form and content consistent with the City Charter and other applicable law.

 Section 2. Contingent upon the execution of the CDBG agreement and the receipt of sufficient CDBG funds as authorized in Section 1 hereof:

 A. the expenditure allowances in the 2001 Budget in the Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund (17810) for the following lines of business of the following departments and offices are hereby revised as follows:

 Source

 Fund Number

 Department or Office

 Line of Business

 Increase

 CDBG

 17810

 Human Services

 Leadership & Corporate Services

 $ 97,937

 Community Services

 $ 103,529

 Housing

 Single Family Production & Preservation

 $ 36,303

 Multifamily Production & Preservation

 $ 80,450

 Economic Development

 Workforce Development

 $ 30,000

 Neighborhood and Community Development

 $ 112,103

 Parks

 Planning and Capital Improvement

 $ 34,134

 Neighborhoods

 Community Building

 $ 10,931

 Total

 $505,387

 and

 B. the 2001 Adopted Budget is hereby further amended to increase expenditure authority in the following funds for the following lines of business of the following department and office:

 Department or Office & Fund Number

 Line of Business & Summit Code

 Amount

 Human Services (16200)

 Leadership & Corporate Services (H6)

 $ 45,065

 Community Services (H3)

 $ 13,050

 Office of Housing (16600)

 Single Family Production & Preservation (XZ)

 $ 63,999

 Multifamily Production & Preservation (XZ)

 $ 54,499

 Total

 $176,613

 To the extent required to support expenditures pursuant to the authority granted in this subsection B, transfers from Fund 17810, of up to $58,115 to Fund 16200 and up to $118,498 to Fund 16600, are hereby authorized.

 Section 3. Contingent, except as to ESG moneys, upon the execution of the agreements for the respective sources and the receipt of sufficient moneys from those sources as authorized in Section 1 hereof:

 A. the expenditure allowances in the 2001 Budget in the following funds for the following lines of business of the Human Services Department and Office of Housing are hereby amended as follows:

 Sources

 Department or Office

 Fund Number

 Line of Business & Summit Code

 Increase (Decrease)

 ESG

 Human services

 16200

 Community Services (H3)

 $ (12,000)

 HOPWA

 Human Services

 16200

 Community Services (H3)

 $ 117,000

 HOME

 Housing

 16490

 Single Family Production & Preservation (XZ)

 $ 22,250

 16490

 Multifamily Production & Preservation (XZ)

 $ 284,650

 and

 B. the 2001 Adopted Budget is hereby further amended to increase expenditure authority

 in the following fund for the Office of Housing for the following line of business:

 Department or Office

 Fund Number

 Line of Business & Summit Code

 Increase

 Office of Housing

 16600

 Administration (XZ)

 $ 34,100

 To the extent required to support expenditures pursuant to the authority granted in this subsection B, the transfer from Fund 16490 of up to $34,100 to Fund 16600, is hereby authorized.

 Section 4. The amended 2001 Action Plan Activities table, Attachment 1 to this ordinance, is hereby adopted as a component of the 2001-2004 Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development, superseding the similar table as adopted by Resolution 30237; provided that the proposed revisions to year 2000 allocations shown in Attachment 1 are not adopted hereby, but will be considered for future Council action. The Director of the Human Services Department is authorized to make any conforming changes that may be necessary to other portions of the current Consolidated Plan, or to prior Consolidated Plans, to reflect the changes adopted in this section.

 Section 5. Any unexpended and unencumbered balances of the appropriations made in this ordinance shall carry forward from year to year except to the extent expressly abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 6. Execution of the agreements authorized in Section 1 hereof, and other acts pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance, are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 7. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ______ day of ____________________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ______ day of ____________________, 2001.

 __________________________________________

 President ___________________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this ______ day of ____________________, 2001.

 __________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this ______ day of ____________________, 2001.

 __________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 HB:HT

 HUD 01 $s Ord.doc

 V 8

 2001 Action Plan Activities As submitted to HUD (with additions &~~deletions~~ Note: LOB subtotals and project totals (right column) show revised values only.

 0 2001 ACTION PLAN: Page 1 BY LINES OF BUSINESS/PROGRAMS of 51

 01 D/O: Agency City of Seattle: HSP, CDBG, ESG, HOPWA, & 2000 2001 2001 2001 2001 2001 Prop. LOB: Name HOME Allocati HSP/GF CDBG ESG HOPWA HOME 2001 Program Printed June 19, 2001 (7:49AM) on Allocati C:\_Workspace wpd\_2001 Action Plan by on DOLOBCC.wpd

 1 Office of Housing

 11 Single Family Production and Preservation

 1109 Rehabilitation Lending and Investment

 111 City of Housing Technical Assistance Staffing CD 1,037,69 $1,037,6 OH: Single Seattle (Citywide) 1,776,90 5~~95 Family OH Single-family residential. Support staff cost 2 $973,696 Production of managing rehabilitation projects,~~ and facilitating rental rehabilitation, providing Preservation down payment assistance, contract costs for : lead-based paint and Endangered Species Act, Rehabilitati and various housing development loan programs on Lending throughout the City. Provide staff support and for weatherization and energy efficiency Investment improvements in lowincome residences. Note: actual costs of home weatherization are supported by various non-CDBG federal, state and local revenues. Weatherize at least 1,260 housing units occupied by low-income households. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 111 City of Rehabilitation Lending & Weatherization 463,038{ $463,038 OH: Single Seattle Services (NA) - Family OH ~~Program income from~~HOME-funded single $451,913 Production family rehabilitation program loans will be and used for additional loans; 10% of program Preservation income received will be used for : administration. Rehabilitati on Lending and Investment

 111 City of Rehabilitation Lending & Weatherization CDPI 537,583{ $537,583 OH: Single Seattle Services PI (Citywide) 1,200,00 - Family OH The home rehab program provides loans to 0 $900,000 Production low-income homeowners for necessary rehab and work to their homes. The homeowner through a Preservation bid process selects the contractors providing : the work. Homeowners are served on a Rehabilitati first-come, first-served basis subject to on Lending eligibility criteria including ownership, and income, credit, and repair/rehab needs of the Investment home. Households served with housing rehabilitation loans are homeowners with income at or below 80% of area median income. $900,000 of CDBG funds is Program Income. 10% of Program Income received will be used for program delivery. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 111 City of HOME Rehabilitation Lending & Weatherization $208,000 $208,000 OH: Single Seattle Services ~~Single Family Rehabilitation~~ Family OH PI (NA) Production Program income from HOME-funded single family and rehabilitation program loans will be used for Preservation additional loans; 10% of program income : received will be used for administration. Rehabilitati on Lending and Investment

 1115 Rehabilitation Lending and Investment 2,976,90 $0 $1,575,2 $0 $0 $671,038 $2,246,3 Subtotal 2 78 16

 1119 Home Buyer Assistance

 112 City of Home Buyer ~~Owner~~Programs (Citywide) HM 463,037{ $463,037 OH: Single Seattle The HOME Homeowner funds will be used for 878,175 - Family OH Home Buyer Assistance for first time $451,912 Production homeowners with household incomes at or below and 80% of area median income. These funds will Preservation be included in a Home Buyer Assistance : Request for Proposals (RFP) to be released in Homeownershi 2001. The RFP process will be the basis for p the selection of other home buyer assistance Assistance projects. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 1125 Home Buyer Assistance Subtotal 878,175 $0 $0 $0 $0 $463,037 $463,037

 1129 Minor Home Repair

 113 Senior Minor Home Repair (Citywide) CD 588,626{ $588,626 OH: Single Services Singlefamily residential. Provide low-cost 568,172 - Family of inspection and minor home repairs such as $552,323 Production Seattle plumbing, electrical work, and carpentry in and & King homes of lowincome home owners, primarily Preservation County (but not limited to those) 60 years of age : and over. Senior Services will serve all Minor Home low-income clients in the City. ~~Repair subcontract with FPA to do home repairs for nonelderly and disabled households.~~ Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 1135 Minor Home Repair Subtotal 568,172 $0 $588,626 $0 $0 $0 $588,626

 119 Single Family Production and Preservation 4,423,24 $0 $2,163,9 $0 $0 $1,134,0 $3,297,9 Subtotal 9 04 75 79

 12 Multifamily Production and Preservation

 1209 Multifamily Rehabilitation Lending and Investment

 121 City of Housing Technical Assistance Staffing CD 883,657{ $883,657 OH: Seattle (Citywide) 852,951{ - Multifamily OH Multi-family residential. Support staff cost - $829,158 Production of managing rehabilitation projects, 1,776,90 and facilitating rental rehabilitation, providing 2 Preservation down payment assistance, contract costs for : lead-based paint and Endangered Species Act, Multifamily and various housing development loan programs Rehabilitati throughout the City. on Lending Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: and 12/31/2001. Investment

 121 City of Rental Unit Preservation & Development HM 2,646,12 $2,646,1 OH: Seattle (Citywide) 2,284,52 5~~25 Multifamily OH Preservation and development of rental units 5 $2,361,4 Production (in multi-family buildings) occupied by small 75~~ and and large families and single individuals. Preservation Income group served to be consistent with : HOME Program regulations. The City's Multifamily multi-family housing projects, unlike other Rehabilitati capital projects, do not receive approval on Lending through the Capital Improvement Program and and the annual budget process. Instead, OH Investment selects housing projects through a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) process. The NOFA process ensures selection of multi-family projects on a competitive basis and not on a first-come, first-served basis. The competitive process allows the city to review several projects at once and allocate various funds in order to maximize City housing  dollars. The Office of Housing and Project Management will issue 2 NOFAs in 2001. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 121 City of Multifamily Loan Fund (Citywide) CD 770,645{ $770,645 OH: Seattle Multi-family residential. Provide gap 710,000 - Multifamily OH financing for acquisition and rehabilitation $690,195 Production of lowincome housing in return for fixedterm and rental rate and occupancy income Preservation restrictions. (Used Citywide.) One or two : projects will be selected through a Multifamily competitive selection process. In addition to Rehabilitati the CDBG Entitlement amount, $511,000 of on Lending Program Income is allocated to this project. and (See Activity 14 B Program Income.) Investment Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 121 City of Low-Income Housing Development Services (N/A) CD 0~~$533,803 $533,803 OH: Seattle Additional funding for developing low-income 549,120 Multifamily OH housing projects sponsored by nonprofit~~ Production organizations. Funding will support and development services including site Preservation acquisition, preparing funding proposals and : securing financing, and construction Multifamily monitoring for rental rehabilitation projects Rehabilitati or those new construction projects undertaken on Lending by Community Based Development Organizations. and Funding will be awarded to specific projects Investment selected through a process that ensures assistance is made to projects that need this program's help. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 121 City of Multifamily Loan Fund PI (Citywide) CDPI 490,505{ $490,505 OH: Seattle Multi-family residential. Provide gap 1,000,00 - Multifamily OH financing for acquisition and rehabilitation 0 $128,088 Production of lowincome housing in return for fixedterm and rental rate and occupancy income Preservation restrictions. (Used Citywide.) One or two : projects will be selected through a Multifamily competitive selection process. In addition to Rehabilitati the estimated $511,000 of CDBG Program on Lending Income, $690,195 of CDBG Entitlement is and allocated to this project. Investment Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 1215 Multifamily Rehabilitation Lending and 4,847,47 $0 $2,678,6 $0 $0 $2,646,1 $5,324,7 Investment Subtotal 6 10 25 35

 129 Multifamily Production and Preservation 4,847,47 $0 $2,678,6 $0 $0 $2,646,1 $5,324,7 Subtotal 6 10 25 35

 13 Community Development

 1309 Redevelopment Program

 131 City of Neighborhood Seattle (Citywide) CD 0~~$0 $0 OH: Seattle 77,685 Community OH~~ Development: [combine d with Redevelopmen MF & SF t Program Tech asst]

 131 City of Yesler/ Atlantic Urban Renewal (Office: 618 CDPI $0 $0 OH: Seattle 2nd Avenue) 50,000 Community OH Sales proceeds from City-owned land will be Development: used for appraisal costs, escrow fees, etc., of project area properties. Redevelopmen Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: t Programs 12/31/2001.

 1315 Redevelopment Program Subtotal 50,000 $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 $0

 139 Community Development Subtotal 50,000 $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 $0

 14 Corporate Services

 1419 Management Support Services

 142 City of HOME Administration (Office: 618 2nd Avenue) HM 435,800{ $435,800 OH: Seattle Fund City costs of implementing the HOME 390,300 - Corporate OH program. $401,700 Services: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Management 12/31/2001. Support Services

 1425 Management Support Services Subtotal 390,300 $0 $0 $0 $0 $435,800 $435,800

 149 Corporate Services Subtotal 390,300 $0 $0 $0 $0 $435,800 $435,800

 19 Office of Housing Subtotal 9,711,02 $0 $4,842,5 $0 $0 $4,216,0 $9,058,5 5 14 00 14

 2 Human Services Department

 2105 Leadership & Corporate Services

 2109 Leadership

 211 Human Human Services Enhancement (Citywide) HS $32,258 $32,258 HSD: Services Provide the City and other regional 31,137 Leadership governments with information on public & Corporate Coalitio policies which affect low income, Services: n disenfranchised and under-served people. Leadership (SHSC) Coordinate with non-profits throughout the City in an effort to share resources, information and linkages. Provide leadership and coordination for building service capacity within non-profits. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 211 MEDC Minority Executive Directors Coalition HS $31,841 $31,841 HSD: (Citywide) 30,735 Leadership Assist the City in meeting established goals & Corporate for providing services in ways that best meet Services: the needs of its diverse community and build Leadership capacity of organizations that serve people of color. Gather and provide information to the City on the needs of the minority and limited English proficient populations; and assist the City and other local funders in designing and administering services to meet those needs. (DHHS General Fund $10,080) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 212 City of Human Services Planning (618 Second Avenue: CD 391,031{ $391,031 HSD: Seattle Citywide) 377,443 - Leadership HSD Staff will develop and evaluate City human $376,092 & Corporate service strategies, goals, policies, and Services: programs for low- and moderate-income Communicatio households, including those of people who are ns homeless or who have special needs. [Also includes Line of Business: Program 244. See addendum.] Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 2125 Leadership Subtotal 439,315 $64,099 $391,031 $0 $0 $0 $455,130

 2149 Grants & Budget Administration

 215 City of Block Grant Administration (Office: 618 2nd CD 1,576,55 $1,576,5 HSD: Seattle Avenue) 1,521,76 2~~52 Leadership HSD Provide administration and technical 8 $1,462,1 & Corporate assistance to City departments and 27~~ Services: community-based organizations so they can Grants & implement CDBG and other HUD grant funds and Budget programs in an efficient, accountable, and Administrati responsive manner. on

 215 City of Contingency Fund $13,638 $13,638 HSD: Seattle Leadership HSD & Corporate Services: Grants & Budget Administrati on

 2155 Grants & Budget Administration Subtotal 1,521,76 $0 $1,590,1 $0 $0 $0 $1,590,1 8 90 90

 2167 Leadership & Corporate Services Subtotal 1,961,08 $64,099 $1,981,2 $0 $0 $0 $2,045,3 3 21 20

 2205 Aging & Disability Services

 2209 Home Based Care

 221 City of African American Elders Project (Citywide) HS $39,924 $39,924 HSD: Aging Seattle The goal of the project is to identify 39,924 & HSD isolated older African Americans and assist Disability them in accessing and obtaining needed social Services: and health promotion/disease prevention Home Based services, through ongoing case management, Care 222 support and referral. The project seeks to HSD: Aging identify African American elders who are: 60 & years and older; chronically ill, frail, or Disability disabled; not able to obtain services, or Services: perform activities of daily living; isolated Healthy within the African American community; Aging low-income or below poverty level; at risk of premature institutionalization; in need of multiple services in order to remain in their home (including services due to health and safety issues); lacking formal and informal support systems. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 221 ~~City Public Housing Case Management (Citywide: SHA CD $15,336 $15,336 HSD: Aging of facilities) 15,336~~& Seattle Seattle Housing Authority (SHA) residents are Disability HSD, able to live as independently and safely as 306,980 Services: ACRS, & possible in a safe and healthy environment,~~~~Home Based CISC avoiding unnecessary hospitalization or Care 222 relocation to other residences. To achieve HSD: Aging this, residents are provided with a broad & range of services, support and access to Disability community services. A provider will be named Services: before January 1, 2000, to administer the Healthy program, since Community Connections Aging discontinued service at the end of 1998. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 221 ~~City Public Housing Case Management (Citywide: SHA CD $23,781 $23,781 HSD: Aging of facilities) 23,781~~& Seattle Seattle Housing Authority (SHA) residents are Disability HSD, able to live as independently and safely as 306,980 Services:~~~~ACRS~~possible in a safe and healthy environment,~~ Home Based , & avoiding unnecessary hospitalization or Care 222 CISC relocation to other residences. To achieve HSD: Aging this, residents are provided with a broad & range of services, support and access to Disability community services. A provider will be named Services: before January 1, 2000, to administer the Healthy program, since Community Connections Aging discontinued service at the end of 1998. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 221 City of Public Housing Case Management (Citywide: SHA CD $267,863 $267,863 HSD: Aging Seattle facilities) 267,863{ & HSD~~, Seattle Housing Authority (SHA) residents are - Disability ACRS, & able to live as independently and safely as 306,980 Services: CISC~~ possible in a safe and healthy environment, Home Based avoiding unnecessary hospitalization or Care 222 relocation to other residences. To achieve HSD: Aging this, residents are provided with a broad & range of services, support and access to Disability community services. A provider will be named Services: before January 1, 2000, to administer the Healthy program, since Community Connections Aging discontinued service at the end of 1998. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 2215 Home Based Care Subtotal 346,904 $39,924 $306,980 $0 $0 $0 $346,904

 2219 Healthy Aging Senior Wellness

 222 Pike Hot Meals Program (1931 1st Avenue, 98101) HS $20,400 HSD: Aging Market The congregate nutrition program helps meet 20,000 $20,400 & Senior the dietary needs of older people by Disability Center providing nutritionally sound lunches served Services: in a group setting, including nutrition Healthy education. Aging Senior Wellness

 222 Pacific Senior Nutrition Program (3701 South Oregon HS $69,029 $69,029 HSD: Aging Asian St, 98144; 6721 51st Ave. S, 98118) 69,029 & Elderly The congregate nutrition program helps meet Disability Program the dietary needs of older people by Services: providing nutritionally sound lunches served Healthy in a group setting, including nutrition Aging education. Senior Wellness

 222 Pacific Emergency Meals (5740 Martin Luther King Way HS $16,452 $16,452 HSD: Aging Asian South, 98118) 16,452 & Elderly Emergency meals, in conjunction with the Disability Program congregate nutrition program, provide Services: nutritionally sound lunches to individuals Healthy who are under 60 years of age, have Aging low-incomes, and have nutritional needs. Senior Wellness

 222 Seattle ID Meal Program (409 Maynard Avenue South, HS $109,185 $109,185 HSD: Aging Chinatow 98104) 107,044 & n IDPDA The congregate nutrition program helps meet Disability the dietary needs of older people by Services: providing nutritionally sound lunches served Healthy in a group setting, including nutrition Aging education. Senior Wellness

 222 ACRS Congregate Meals (7 locations) HS $28,488 $28,488 HSD: Aging The congregate nutrition program helps meet 27,929 & the dietary needs of older people by Disability providing nutritionally sound lunches served Services: in a group setting, including nutrition Healthy education. Aging Senior Wellness

 222 Senior Congregate Nutrition Program (27 locations) HS $20,880 $20,880 HSD: Aging Services The congregate nutrition program helps meet 20,471 & of the dietary needs of older people by Disability Seattle- providing nutritionally sound lunches served Services: King in a group setting, including nutrition Healthy County education. Aging Senior Wellness

 222 Senior Ethnic Registered Dietitian Project (14 HS $31,843 $31,843 HSD: Aging Services locations) 31,219 & of The Ethnic Registered Dietitian provides Disability Seattle- consultation and expert advice on ethnic and Services: King cultural nutrition concerns identified by the Healthy County agencies. The Ethnic Registered Dietitian Aging also assists agencies with complying with Senior program standards/guidelines for senior Wellness congregation and home-delivered nutrition services.

 222 ACRS Asian/ Pacific Elderly Program (Citywide) HS $102,096 $102,096 HSD: Aging (Asian Special Information and Assistance is a 69,584 & Counseli county-wide system. ACRS provides services to Disability ng and Asian and Pacific Islander older adults. The Services: Referral service includes the provision of general Healthy information and client assistance, and access Aging Service) into the aging service system. Senior Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Wellness 12/31/2001.

 222 Pike Pike Market Information & Assistance (1931 HS $35,456 $35,456 HSD: Aging Market First Avenue, 98104) 31,450 & Senior The goal of the Pike Market Senior I&A Disability Center program is to enable older persons in the Services: downtown area to remain independent by Healthy providing information and assistance to older Aging persons for accessing rights, benefits, Senior entitlement and resources from public & Wellness community sources. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 222 Chinese Elderly Information & Assistance Program HS $64,869 $64,869 HSD: Aging Informat (Citywide) 61,561 & ion & Special Information and Assistance is part of Disability Service a county-wide service system. Chinese Services: Center Information & Service Center provides Healthy bilingual & bicultural services to older Aging adults from Chinese communities. The service Senior includes the provision of general information Wellness and client assistance, and access into the aging service system. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 222 Neighbor Resident Service Public Housing Elderly HS $78,009 $78,009 HSD: Aging -hood (Citywide) 76,028 & House Special Information and Assistance is a Disability county-wide system. This I&A provider serves Services: African American, Hispanic, Asian and Pacific Healthy Islander residents of public housing. The Aging services include general information and Senior client assistance, and access service into Wellness the aging service system. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 222 Sea Mar Senior Advocate Outreach Specialist HS $12,973 $12,973 HSD: Aging Communit (Citywide) 12,973 & y Special Information and Assistance is a Disability Health county-wide system. Sea Mar provides services Services: Center to Hispanic older adults. The service Healthy includes the provision of general information Aging and client assistance, and access into the Senior aging service system. Wellness Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 222 Senior African/American Elderly Program (1600 2nd HS $56,754 $56,754 HSD: Aging Services Ave., 98101) 56,754 & of The Outreach Program identifies older people Disability Seattle/ who do not come into contact with traditional Services: King referral sources. The purpose is to inform Healthy County older people about available services and Aging encourage their participation in aging Senior programs. Wellness

 222 Senior Senior Resource Web (Citywide) HS $16,714 $16,714 HSD: Aging Services The Senior Resource Wed provides the public 6,816 & of and over 150 case managers and I&A advocates Disability Seattle/ online access to up-to-date information on Services: King over 3,000 community resources that serve Healthy County older persons and their families. Users will Aging be able to search easily for resource Senior information be agency name, type of service, Wellness and zip code, and directly link to service providers that have e-mail or web addresses. [Other funding: $50,032.] Performance Indicator: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 222 Filipino ID Drop in Center (513 South Main Street, HS $46,194 $46,194 HSD: Aging Senior 98104) 45,288 & Center The Filipino Senior Center is a community Disability resource center designed to meet the physical Services: and emotional needs of older adults by Healthy offering access to services and resources on Aging site, arts and crafts, health and educational Senior opportunities, nutrition, exercise and Wellness fitness programs. Nutritional meals are served at low cost, and provide opportunities for socialization. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 222 Senior Wallingford Senior Center (4649 Sunnyside HS $26,618 $26,618 HSD: Aging Services North, 98103) 26,096 & of The Wallingford Senior Center is a community Disability Seattle/ resource center designed to meet the physical Services: King and emotional needs of older adults by Healthy County offering access to services and resources on Aging site, arts and crafts, health and educational Senior opportunities, nutrition, exercise and Wellness fitness programs. Nutritious meals are served at low cost, and provide opportunities for socialization. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 222 Senior Greenwood Senior Center (525 North 85th St, HS $17,954 $17,954 HSD: Aging Services 98103) 17,602 & of The Greenwood Senior Center is a community Disability Seattle/ resource center designed to meet the physical Services: King and emotional needs of older adults by Healthy County offering access to services and resources on Aging site, arts and crafts, health and educational Senior opportunities, nutrition, exercise and Wellness fitness programs. Nutritious meals are served at low cost, and provide opportunities for socialization. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 222 South South Park Seniors Activity Program HS $5,349 $5,349 HSD: Aging Park (Citywide) 5,244 & Senior The South Park Seniors Activity Program is a Disability Citizens community resource center designed to meet Services: the physical and emotional needs of older Healthy adults by offering access to services and Aging resources on site, arts and crafts, health Senior and educational opportunities, nutrition, Wellness exercise and fitness programs. Nutritional meals are served at low cost, and provide opportunities for socialization. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 222 Seattle Intergenerational: SPICE (Nathan Hale, 10750 HS 0~~$0 $0 HSD: Aging School 30th Ave NE, 98125; Whittier, 1320 SW 75th~~~~& District St, 98117; McClure, 1915 1st Ave W, 98119; 265,678 Disability Madison, 3429 45th Ave SW, 98116)~~ [See Services: The SPICE Program offers opportunities for line Healthy older adults to interact with Seattle Public for Aging School students through tutoring, reading, SPICE: Senior computer pals, and other intergenerational Fremont Wellness activities at seven Seattle School District Public school sites. Associat Start date: 9/1/2000 - Completion date: ion] 12/31/2001.

 222 Fremont Intergenerational: SPICE (Nathan Hale, 10750 HS $265,678 $265,678 HSD: Aging Public 30th Ave NE, 98125; Whittier, 1320 SW 75th 265,678 & Associat St, 98117; McClure, 1915 1st Ave W, 98119; [See Disability ion Madison, 3429 45th Ave SW, 98116) line Services: The SPICE Program offers opportunities for for Healthy older adults to interact with Seattle Public SPICE: Aging School students through tutoring, reading, Seattle Senior computer pals, and other intergenerational School Wellness activities at seven Seattle School District District school sites. ] Start date: 9/1/2000 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 222 Chinese Sunshine Garden Sr. Day Care (409 Maynard Ave HS $30,026 $30,026 HSD: Aging Informat S, 98104) 29,437 & ion & Adult day care provides supervised daytime Disability Service programs where frail and disabled adults can Services: Center participate in social, educational, and Healthy recreational activities. A registered nurse Aging and social worker provide consultation Senior regarding the individual's overall Wellness well-being. The program offers respite to care givers. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 222 Universi Client Scholarship Program (4515 16th Ave. HS $5,322 $5,322 HSD: Aging ty NE, 98105) 5,218 & Adult Adult day care provides supervised daytime Disability Day programs where frail and disabled adults can Services: Center participate in social, educational, and Day Care??? recreational activities. A registered nurse and social worker provide consultation regarding the individual's overall well-being. The program offers respite to care givers. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 222 City of Aging Support Services (N/A) HS 44,712~~$44,712 HSD: Aging Seattle A variety of funds will be made available for 59,491 & HSD other aging support services. $58,479 Disability Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date:~~ Services: 12/31/2001. Healthy Aging Senior Wellness

 222 Senior Home Sharing for Seniors (Citywide) CD $65,650 $65,650 HSD: Aging Services Homesharing for Seniors is an 65,650 & of intergenerational, alternative housing Disability Seattle/ program that helps older adults stay in their Services: King homes by helping them find someone to share Healthy County their home for rent or in exchange for Aging services. The program helps older adults Senior remain independent and in their own homes Wellness while providing affordable, safe housing 221 choices for people of all ages. Older people HSD: Aging who are looking for help with household & chores or a modest rent are matched with Disability carefully screened, compatible persons Services: looking for a place to live. Home Based Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Care 12/31/2001.

 222 Senior Senior Wellness Program (5429 32nd Avenue NW, HS $11,853 $11,853 HSD: Aging Services 98107; 500 30th Avenue So., 98144; 525 North 11,853 & of 85th St., 98103; 201 16th Avenue E., 98112; Disability Seattle/ 1931 1st Avenue NE, 98101; 4655 So. Holly Services: King St., 98118; 4217 SW Oregon St., 98116) Healthy County The Senior Wellness Program is a countywide Aging initiative designed to replicate Senior research-based interventions to improve the Wellness health and functioning of older adults with chronic conditions and to reduce unnecessary medical care utilization. Four innovative programs - Lifetime Fitness; Self-management of Chronic Conditions; The Health Mentor Program; and The Health Enhancement Program, have been proven effective in markedly improving physical and emotional functioning, activity levels and self-efficacy.

 2225 Healthy Aging Senior Wellness Subtotal 1,138,86 $1,116,8 $65,650 $0 $0 $0 $1,182,5 7 54 04

 2229 Senior and Adult Self-Sufficiency

 223 Pike Pike Market Senior Center (1931 First Avenue, HS $20,400 $20,400 HSD: Aging Market 98101) 20,000 & Senior The Job Placement Program provides employment Disability Center counseling and job referral services to Services: persons 55 years of age or older. Senior and Adult Self-Suffici ency

 223 CSCDHH Interpreter Referral Service (1609 19th Ave, HS $37,335 $37,335 HSD: Aging (Communi 98122) 37,335 & ty Educate and support non-profit social service Disability Service agencies and government staff to comply with Services: Center requirements mandated by the American Senior and for the Disabilities Act (ADA). Provide interpreter Adult Deaf & referral services and interpretation services Self-Suffici Hard of to deaf, deaf-blind, or hard of hearing ency Hearing) low-income persons for accessing human services. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 223 City of Disability Access Enhancement Project 47,609 $37,806 $9,803 $47,609 HSD: Aging Seattle (Citywide) [CD & HSD Support planning and service coordination 9,803 Disability activities resulting in improved HS Services: accessibility to facilities, programs, or 37,806] Senior and systems for disabled clients in need of human Adult services. Self-Suffici Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: ency 12/31/2001.

 223 Deaf Case Management Services (2366 Eastlake HS $34,426 $34,426 HSD: Aging Blind Avenue East, 98102) 33,751 & Service Provide coordinated case management services Disability Center for deaf-blind people as well as direct Services: support for other service providers that may Senior and be working with deaf-blind persons. Adult Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Self-Suffici 12/31/2001. ency

 2235 Senior and Adult Self-Sufficiency Subtotal 138,695 $129,967 $9,803 $0 $0 $0 $139,770

 2247 Aging & Disability Services Subtotal 1,624,46 $1,286,7 $382,433 $0 $0 $0 $1,669,1 6 45 78

 2305 Children, Youth, & Family Development

 2309 Child Development

 231 Catholic Our Place Daycare Center (717 20th Avenue HS $95,547 $95,547 HSD: South, 98144) 92,227 Children, Communit Provide quality child care, transportation Youth, & y and support services to homeless children and Family Services their families. (HCC) Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001. Child Development

 231 Child Child/ Family Resource Referral (Citywide) HS $84,008 $84,008 HSD: Family Assist families in obtaining high quality 81,089 Children, Resource child care. Youth, & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Family Referral 12/31/2001. Development:

 Child Development

 231 Family Homeless Family Morningsong (1025 East Fir HS $95,547 $95,547 HSD: Services St, 98122) 92,227 Children, Provide quality child care, transportation Youth, & and support services to homeless children and Family their families. (HCC) Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001. Child Development

 231 City of Comprehensive Child Care Services (N/A) 588,195 14,156~~$574,531 $588,687 HSD: Seattle Provide subsidy for child care services to [CD Children, HSD children of lowincome persons to assist their 574,531 $34,839 Youth, & employment and training opportunities and HS~~ Family support the children's optimal development in 13,664] Development: high quality child care settings. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Child 12/31/2001. Development

 231 City of African American Child Care (4555 Delridge HS $142,269 $142,269 HSD: Seattle Way SW, 98106; 2323 East Cherry St, 98122; 137,325 Children, HSD 7301 Beacon Avenue South, 98108) Youth, & Provide culturally relevant support and Family access to family services for low-income Development: African American families with children enrolled in child care programs in central Child and southeast Seattle. Development Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 231 City of Child Care Wages Initiative aka Business/ HS $46,529 $46,529 HSD: Seattle Child Care Partnership (Citywide) 44,912 Children, HSD Improve the quality of child care by Youth, & facilitating partnerships and exchange of Family resources between businesses and child care Development: programs. Contributions received allow child care directors to raise staff wages enabling Child directors to attract and retain high quality Development staff. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 231 Targeted Child Care Training Program (Citywide) HS $71,213 $71,213 HSD: Local community college provides training to 68,738 Children, Services early childhood professionals designed to Youth, & Fund: increase the quality of child care city-wide. Family HSD Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Development: 12/31/2001.

 Child Development

 231 YWCA of School's Out Consortium (Citywide) HS $11,878 $11,878 HSD: Seattle Provide training, technical assistance, and 11,465 Children, King community education to improve the quality Youth, & County and availability of out-of-school programs Family for low-income children and youth, ages 5 to Development: 14. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Child 12/31/2001. Development (or 232)

 2315 Child Development Subtotal 1,116,17 $561,147 $574,531 $0 $0 $0 $1,135,6 8 78

 2319 Youth Development

 232 Catholic Denny Place Youth Shelter (210 Dexter Avenue CD 0~~$28,037 $28,037 HSD: N, 98109) 28,037~~~~Children, Communit Provide emergency shelter, food, counseling $1,009 Youth, & y and information and referral services for~~ Family Services homeless and low-income youth, 12 to 17 years Development: of age. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Youth 12/31/2001. Development

 232 Catholic University District Youth Center (4516 15th CD 0~~$66,217 $66,217 HSD: Ave. NE, 98105) 66,217~~~~Children, Communit Provide street outreach, case management, $2,384 Youth, & y counseling, and supportive services to~~ Family Services homeless or low-income youth. Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001. Youth Development

 232 United Iw'asil Youth Program (102 Prefontaine Place CD 0~~$76,187 $76,187 HSD: Indians South, 98104) 76,187~~~~Children, of All Provide counseling and supportive services to $2,743 Youth, & Tribes low-income homeless street youth, including~~ Family Found basic life skills, crisis counseling, Development: substance abuse evaluation and counseling, health services, and cultural education. Youth Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Development 12/31/2001.

 232 Lambert Lambert House (818 15th Avenue, 98122) HS $58,161 $58,161 HSD: House Provide emergency shelter and supportive 56,140 Children, services including family and group Youth, & counseling, meals, medical care, recreational Family activities and related services to homeless Development: youth, ages 11 to 17. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Youth 12/31/2001. Development

 232 TBD ??? TBD for homeless youth services HS 0~~$0 HSD: (carryover funds from 1999) 9,161~~~~Children, $9,491 Youth, &~~ Family Development:

 Youth Development

 232 YMCA of Aloha House Shelter/ Operations (902 15th 58,148 4,030~~$54,258 $58,288 HSD: Greater Avenue E, 98122) [CD $5,983 Children, Seattle Provide 24-hour short term housing with case 54,258~~ Youth, & management, mental health services, and HS Family referral to other needed services. 3,890] Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001. Youth Development

 232 YMCA of Young Adults in Transition (909 4th Avenue, 122,701 39,210~~$113,540 $152,750 HSD: Greater 98104) [CD Children, Seattle Provide emergency shelter and case management 113,540 $43,297 Youth, & services to homeless male and female young $4,087 Family adults 18 to 22 years of age for up to 60 HS~~ Development: days. 9,161] Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Youth 12/31/2001. Development

 232 Youthcar Straley House (5602 15th Avenue NE, 98105) CD 0~~$23,363 $23,363 HSD: e Provide transitional housing and supportive 23,363~~~~Children, services, including clinical assessment, case $841~~ Youth, & management, substance abuse counseling, Family living skills instruction and vocational Development: training services to homeless youth aged 18 to 21. Youth Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Development 12/31/2001.

 232 Youthcar Ravenna House (5825 16th Avenue NE, 98105) HS $0 $0 HSD: e Assist homeless young women, age 16 through 28,686 Children, 21, transition toward independent living. The Youth, & program serves young women who meet the Family intake criteria with an emphasis on outreach Development: to women of color. Aftercare services are provided to all young women who leave the Youth program. Development Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 232 Youthcar The Shelter (6201 46th Avenue S, 98118) CD 0~~$62,287 $62,287 HSD: e Provide emergency shelter and supportive 62,287~~~~Children, services including family and group $2,242 Youth, & counseling, meals, medical care, recreational~~ Family activities and related services to homeless Development: youth, ages 11 to 17. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Youth 12/31/2001. Development

 232 Youthcar Orion Multiservice Street Youth Center (1020 CD 0~~$111,911 $111,911 HSD: e Virginia St, 98101) 111,911~~~~Children, Provide outreach, case management, and $4,029 Youth, & supportive counseling services to homeless~~ Family street youth. (240 case management clients Development: (duplicated)) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Youth 12/31/2001. Development

 232 Atlantic Minority Outreach Program (2103 South HS $49,231 $49,231 HSD: Street Atlantic St, 98144) 47,520 Children, Center Coordinated case management services which Youth, & provide access to comprehensive array of Family support services to at-risk, middle and high Development: school youth aged 12-24 and their families.

 Youth Development

 232 CAMP Minority Outreach Program (2615 South Jackson HS $27,939 $27,939 HSD: St, 98144) 26,968 Children, Coordinated case management services which Youth, & provide access to comprehensive array of Family support services to at-risk, middle and high Development: school youth aged 12-24 and their families.

 Youth Development

 232 El Minority Outreach Program (2524 16th Avenue HS $49,231 $49,231 HSD: Centro South, 98144) 47,520 Children, de la Coordinated case management services which Youth, & Raza provide access to comprehensive array of Family support services to at-risk, middle and high Development: school youth aged 12-24 and their families.

 Youth Development

 232 Filipino Minority Outreach Program (810 18th Avenue, HS $49,231 $49,231 HSD: Youth 98122) 47,520 Children, Activiti Coordinated case management services which Youth, & es provide access to comprehensive array of Family support services to at-risk, middle and high Development: school youth aged 12-24 and their families.

 Youth Development

 232 United Minority Outreach Program (Discovery Park, HS $49,231 $49,231 HSD: Indians 98199) 47,520 Children, of All Coordinated case management services which Youth, & Tribes provide access to comprehensive array of Family support services to at-risk, middle and high Development: school youth aged 12-24 and their families.

 Youth Development

 232 Central Individual & Family Counseling (1901 Martin HS $163,167 $163,167 HSD: Youth & Luther King Way South, 98144) 157,497 Children, Family Provide culturally appropriate counseling Youth, & Services services tailored to individual needs of Family at-risk youth and their families. (YC) Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001. Youth Development

 232 Northwes Individual & Family Counseling Counseling & HS 180,023{ $180,023 HSD: t Youth Employment Programs (8288 Lake City Way NE, 173,767 - Children, & 98115) $176,427 Youth, & Family Provide culturally appropriate counseling Family Services services tailored to individual needs of Development: at-risk youth and their families. (YC) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Youth 12/31/2001. Development

 232 Refugee Refugee Youth Advocacy/ Employment (7101 HS $65,347 $65,347 HSD: Federati Martin Luther King Way S, 98118) 63,076 Children, on Assist at risk youth in developing problem Youth, & solving skills, a sense of community Family responsibility and leadership skills. (YD) Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001. Youth Development

 232 Southeas Individual & Family Counseling Southeast HS $213,895 $213,895 HSD: t Youth Youth and Family Services (3722 South Hudson, 206,462 Children, & 98118) Youth, & Family Provide culturally appropriate counseling Family Services services tailored to individual needs of Development: at-risk youth and their families. (YC) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Youth 12/31/2001. Development

 232 Southwes Individual & Family Counseling Counseling and HS 176,427{ $176,427 HSD: t Youth Employment Program (4555 Delridge Way SW, 170,296 - Children, & 98106) $180,023 Youth, & Family Provide culturally appropriate counseling Family Services services tailored to individual needs of Development: at-risk youth and their families. (YC) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Youth 12/31/2001. Development

 232 Lao Lao Community Center SE Asian Youth at Risk HS $42,195{ $42,195 HSD: Communit (1531 Bradner Place South, 98144) 40,729 - Children, y Coordinate case management services which $42,915 Youth, & Center provide access to a comprehensive array of Family support services to at-risk, middle school Development: aged youth and their families.(CM) Provide culturally appropriate counseling Youth services tailored to individual needs of Development at-risk youth and their families. (YC) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 232 Chinese Ren Ren Young Explorers (409 Maynard Avenue HS $64,830 $64,830 HSD: Informat S, 98104) 62,577 Children, ion & Assist at-risk youth in achieving academic Youth, & Service competency at their current grade level and Family Center create a lifelong enthusiasm for learning. Development: (YESS) Assist at risk youth in developing problem Youth solving skills, a sense of community Development responsibility and leadership skills. (YD) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 232 El Hope for Youth (2524 16th Avenue South, HS $46,496 $46,496 HSD: Centro 98144) 44,880 Children, de la Assist at risk youth in developing problem Youth, & Raza solving skills, a sense of community Family responsibility and leadership skills. (YD) Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001. Youth Development

 232 Operatio Junior Helpers (7101 38th Avenue South, HS $52,836 $52,836 HSD: nal 98118) 51,000 Children, Emergenc Assist at risk youth in developing problem Youth, & y solving skills, a sense of community Family Center responsibility and leadership skills. (YD) Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001. Youth Development

 232 Kappa Mentorship Career Internship Program (201 HS $31,702 $31,702 HSD: Alpha 19th Avenue, 98122) 30,600 Children, Psi Assist at risk youth in developing problem Youth, & solving skills, a sense of community Family responsibility and leadership skills. (YD) Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001. Youth Development

 232 ACRS Mentoring/ Tutoring (720 8th Avenue South, HS $84,538 $84,538 HSD: (Asian 98144) 81,600 Children, Counseli Assist at risk youth in developing problem Youth, & ng and solving skills, a sense of community Family Referral responsibility and leadership skills. (YD) Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Service) 12/31/2001. Youth Development

 232 Children Homeless Teen Parent Foster Home (339 22nd HS $52,215 $52,215 HSD: 's Home Avenue East, 98122) 50,401 Children, Society Provide transitional housing & supportive Youth, & services for homeless, pregnant, & parenting Family teens, ages 13 through 17. Provide emergency Development: shelter, food, counseling and information and referral services for homeless and low-income Youth youth, 12 to 17 years of age. Development Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 232 American Gay & Lesbian Youth Project (814 NE 40th St, HS $74,937 $74,937 HSD: 98105) 72,333 Children, Friends Provide activities which empower sexual Youth, & Service minority youth and advocate for services and Family support for this population in the schools Development: and social services organizations. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Youth 12/31/2001. Development

 232 City of Youth Program (various) ES $31,824 $31,824 HSD: Seattle Provide shelter and supporting service to 30,718 Children, HSD homeless youth. Youth, & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Family 12/31/2001. Development:

 Youth Development

 2325 Youth Development Subtotal 2,095,82 $1,574,8 $535,800 $31,824 $0 $0 $2,142,4 2 72 96

 2329 Family Development

 233 Chinese Parent Education (409 Maynard Ave South, HS $11,096 $11,096 HSD: Informat 98104) 10,710 Children, ion Provide parenting courses that are culturally Youth, & Service relevant and language accessible to immigrant Family Center and refugee families from selected Development: communities. (PE) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Family 12/31/2001. Development

 233 Refugee Parent Education (7101 Martin Luther King Way HS $44,230 $44,230 HSD: Federati South, 98118) 42,693 Children, on Provide parenting courses that are culturally Youth, & Service relevant and language accessible to immigrant Family Center and refugee families from selected Development: communities. (PE) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Family 12/31/2001. Development

 233 Refugee Parent Education (3004 S. Alaska Street, HS $2,855 $2,855 HSD: Women's 98118) 2,756 Children, Alliance Provide parenting courses that are culturally Youth, & relevant and language accessible to immigrant Family and refugee families from selected Development: communities. (PE) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Family 12/31/2001. Development

 233 Seattle Homeless Teen Parent Housing (5825 16th Ave HS $39,930 $39,930 HSD: Housing NE, 98105) (126 22nd Avenue, 98122) 38,542 Children, Authorit Provide transitional housing & supportive Youth, & y (SHA) services to homeless teen mothers. Provide Family emergency shelter, food, counseling and Development: information and referral services for homeless and low-income youth, 12 to 17 years Family of age. Development Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 233 Southwes Southwest Teen Parent Support (4555 Delridge HS $15,851 $15,851 HSD: t Youth Way SW, 98106) 15,300 Children, & To provide coordinated access to a skilled Youth, & Family advocate, counseling, GED preparation, Family parenting education and safe and Development: developmentally appropriate childcare to child of students while they are in education Family and parenting classes. Development Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 233 YWCA of Teen Parent Self Sufficiency Project at HS $24,877 $24,877 HSD: Seattle- Garfield Family Center (2323 East Cherry St, 24,013 Children, King 98122) Youth, & County To provide coordinated access to a skilled Family advocate, counseling, GED preparation, Development: parenting education and safe and developmentally appropriate childcare to Family child of students while they are in education Development and parenting classes. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 233 PEPS Community Outreach/ Teen (3300 NE 65th HS $54,470 $54,470 HSD: Street, 98115; 2323 East Cherry Street, 52,577 Children, 98122; 4555 Delridge Way SW, 98106) Youth, & Provide outreach and comprehensive parent Family support services to teen parents. Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001. Family Development

 2335 Family Development Subtotal 186,591 $193,309 $0 $0 $0 $0 $193,309

 2339 Resource Development

 234 Catholic Welfare Rights Coalition (Citywide) HS $23,319 $23,319 HSD: Provide advocacy for the rights of low-income 22,509 Children, Communit individuals and families to access decent Youth, & y housing and human services programs. Family Services Performance Indicator: Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001. Resource Development

 234 Children Children & Family Investment (172 20th HS $18,322 $18,322 HSD: 's Avenue, 98122 ) 17,685 Children, Alliance Provide advocacy for the rights of low-income Youth, & individuals and families to access decent Family housing and human services programs. (SAS) Development: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001. Resource Development

 234 Crisis Community Resources Online (N/A) HS $15,851 $15,851 HSD: Clinic The goal of Community Resources Online is to 15,300 Children, ensure ongoing provision of unlimited public Youth, & access to a database of community agencies Family and organizations designed to serve the needs Development: of Seattle residents. The program will provide current information about human Resource service programs to the public without charge Development to assist in referral processes for service providers and provide easier access to needed services for clients. The database will be maintained and updated weekly by the Crisis Clinic and housed with the City of Seattle's Public Access Network.

 2345 Resource Development Subtotal 55,494 $57,492 $0 $0 $0 $0 $57,492

 2347 Children, Youth, & Family Development 3,454,08 $2,386,8 $1,110,3 $31,824 $0 $0 $3,528,9 Subtotal 5 20 31 75

 2405 Community Services

 2409 Community Facilities

 241 RFP Architectural Services RFP Community Design CD 165,760{ $165,760 HSD: will Center (Citywide) 240,000 - Community select Provide planning, design and construction $233,306 Services: assistance to community agencies for a wide Community range of low to moderateincome community Facilities development projects. In Human and Community Service, provide 2,850 hours of technical assistance; and in Economic Development, provide 150 hours of technical assistance. Total estimated hours of service will be 3,000. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 241 RFP Architectural Services RFP Community Design CD 0 82,880~~$82,880 HSD: will Center (Citywide) Community select Provide planning, design and construction~~~~Services: assistance to community agencies for a wide $0~~ Community range of low to moderateincome community Facilities development projects. In Human and Community Service, provide 2,850 hours of technical assistance; and in Economic Development, provide 150 hours of technical assistance. Total estimated hours of service will be 3,000. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 241 City of Facilities Project Management (Citywide) CD 341,557{ $341,557 HSD: Seattle Fund staff support for human service physical 329,688 - Community HSD development initiatives; projects proposed by $328,507 Services: communitybased organizations and funded Community through a competitive process (RFP); projects Facilities may include planning, predevelopment/design, acquisition, new construction or rehabilitation. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 241 City of Community Facilities RFP (Citywide) CD 1,449,32 $1,449,3 HSD: Seattle Make funding allocations through a 1,231,24 8~~28 Community HSD competitive Request for Proposals process to 2 $1,361,1 Services: various community-based organizations for 33~~ Community planning, acquisition, construction, or Facilities renovation activities. Provide funding for a number of capital improvement projects proposed by community-based agencies serving low- to moderate-income clients and neighborhoods. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001

 241 Eritrean Eritrean Association Center, Community $100,000 $100,000 HSD: Facilities RFP ( 1954 S. Massachusetts St.)1 Community Associat Construction of a new center serving the Services: ion community at the existing site. Community Facilities

 241 Lao Laotian Community Resource Center, Community $15,000 $15,000 HSD: Highland Facilities RFP ( 3925 S. Bozeman St.)1 Community Construction of a new center serving the Services: Associat community on vacant land next to the existing Community ion facility. Facilities

 241 Refugee ReWA Service Center ComFac RFP (3612 34th $328,562 $328,562 HSD: Women's Avenue South)1 Community Alliance Develop, with the Low Income Housing Services: Institute, a mixed-use site that includes Community 8,000 square feet of social service space for Facilities ReWA. The agency provides a variety of services to assist refugee and immigrant women to achieve self sufficiency.

 241 United Discovery Park People's Lodge 1 $80,000 $80,000 HSD: Indians A feasibility study to develop site plans, Community of All recommendations, and schematics of a 19 acre Services: Tribes site in Discovery Park. The Daybreak Star Community Foundati Center now on the site and the houses a child Facilities on care program. The study will also explore how to best use the property to support UIAT's activities including added social services.

 241 El Beacon Hill Site Acquisition (2524 16th Ave CD $0 $0 HSD: Centro S, 98144) 125,000 Community de la Acquire the Old Beacon Hill School. Services: Raza Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Community 12/31/2001. Facilities

 2415 Community Facilities Subtotal 1,925,93 $0 $2,563,0 $0 $0 $0 $2,563,0 0 87 87

 2419 Emergency & Transitional Services

 242 ACRS ACRS Food Bank (720 8th Avenue South, 98104) HS $90,461 $90,461 HSD: (Asian Provide supplemental and emergency food to 87,318 Community Counseli people with low incomes who reside in the Services: ng and 98104 zip code area and to Asian and Pacific Emergency & Referral Islanders, regardless of where they live. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services Service) 12/31/2001.

 242 Beacon Beacon Avenue Food Bank (6230 Beacon Avenue HS $19,430 $19,430 HSD: Avenue South, 98144) 18,755 Community Food Provide supplemental and emergency food to Services: Bank people with low incomes who reside in South Emergency & and Southeast Seattle. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 CAMP CAMP Food Bank (722 18th Avenue, 98122) HS $78,391 $78,391 HSD: (Central Provide supplemental and emergency food to 75,667 Community Area people with low incomes who reside in the Services: Motivati 98102, 98112, 98118, 98178, 98144, 98134 zip Emergency & on code areas. Transitional Program) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 El Food Bank (2524 16th Avenue South, 98144) HS $56,959 $56,959 HSD: Centro Provide supplemental and emergency food to 54,980 Community de la people with low incomes who reside in the Services: Raza 98108 and 98144 zip code areas and to Emergency & Chicanos/Latinos, regardless of where they Transitional live. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Familywo Familyworks Food Bank (1501 North 45th HS $66,661 $66,661 HSD: rks Street, 98103) 64,345 Community Meet nutritional needs of low-income Services: individuals who reside in the 98103, 98107, Emergency & 98115, and 98133 zip code areas by providing Transitional emergency and supplemental food; and provide Services community support services, education, and skills development trainings and workshops. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Fremont Food Resources /Food Bank Operations HS $90,533 $90,533 HSD: Public /Transportation (Citywide) 87,387 Community Associat Provide transportation services of food and Services: ion essential non-food items to Seattle Food Emergency & Committee member food banks in need of Transitional transportation services. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Georgeto Georgetown Service Center (6200 13th Avenue HS $62,384 $62,384 HSD: wn South, 98108) 60,216 Community Service Provide supplemental and emergency food to Services: Center people with low incomes who reside in Emergency & Georgetown, Maple Hill, South Park, and Transitional Allentown. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 West West Seattle Food Bank (3518 S.W. Genessee HS $44,999 $44,999 HSD: Seattle Street, 98126) 43,435 Community Food Provide supplemental and emergency food to Services: Bank people with low incomes who reside in West Emergency & Seattle. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Northend Ballard/ Magnolia Food Bank (7005 24th Avenue HS $16,403 $16,403 HSD: NW, 98117) 15,833 Community Emergenc Provide supplemental and emergency food to Services: y Fund people with low incomes who reside in the Emergency & (NEEF) 98199 and 98117 ZIP Code areas and parts of Transitional 98107. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 NWCS Northwest Community Services Food Bank (4205 HS $16,715 $16,715 HSD: (Northwe Rainier Avenue South, 98118) 16,134 Community st Provide supplemental and emergency food to Services: Communit people with low incomes who reside in Emergency & y Southeast Seattle. Transitional Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services ) 12/31/2001.

 242 Operatio Community Food Project (11410 Renton Avenue HS $52,375 $52,375 HSD: nal South, 98178) 50,555 Community Emergenc Provide supplemental and emergency food to Services: y people with low incomes. Emergency & Center Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Transitional (OEC) 12/31/2001. Services

 242 Pike Downtown Food Bank (1531 Western Avenue, HS $77,239 $77,239 HSD: Market 98101) 74,555 Community Senior Provide supplemental and emergency food to Services: Center people with low incomes who reside in the Emergency & (PMSC) 98101, 98102, 98104, 98109, 98119, 98121, Transitional 98122, 98134 (partial), and 98199 zip code Services areas. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Seattle Food Bank (611 12th Avenue South, 98104) HS $25,718 $25,718 HSD: Indian Provide supplemental and emergency food to 24,824 Community Center people with low incomes who reside in the Services: 98122 and 98144 zip code areas, as well as to Emergency & Native Americans, regardless of where they Transitional reside. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 St. St. Mary's Food Bank (611 20th Avenue South, HS $35,279 $35,279 HSD: Mary's 98144) 34,053 Community Provide supplemental and emergency food to Services: people who reside in Central Seattle. Emergency & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Transitional 12/31/2001. Services

 242 Univ. University District Food Bank (1413 NE 50th HS $42,299 $42,299 HSD: Dist. Street, 98105) 40,829 Community Service Provide supplemental and emergency food to Services: League people with low incomes who reside in the Emergency & University District and surrounding areas. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Voluntee Food Bank (9747 Greenwood Avenue North, HS $43,444 $43,444 HSD: rs of 98133) 41,934 Community America Provide supplemental and emergency food to Services: (VOA) people in need who reside in the 98103, Emergency & 98117, 98133, and 98177 zip code areas. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 YWCA of Meals System Support /Meals Coordination at HS $12,846 $12,846 HSD: Seattle Angeline's (Citywide) 12,400 Community /King Increase linkages and set up systems Services: County necessary to meet the growing needs of meal Emergency & agencies and strengthen the capacity of the Transitional downtown meal service system. Coordinate meal Services component of Angeline's Day Center. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 ACRS Emergency Meals (720 8th Avenue South, 98104) HS $46,875 $46,875 HSD: (Asian Provide hot, nutritionally balanced meals to 45,246 Community Counseli low-income Asian and Pacific Islanders at Services: ng and various sites throughout Seattle. Emergency & Referral Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Transitional 12/31/2001. Services Service)

 242 Compass Meals Program (77 South Washington St, 98104) HS $34,470 $34,470 HSD: Center Promote the health of low income people by 33,272 Community providing hot, nutritious meals in a setting Services: which offers social support and fosters good Emergency & nutritional health. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Communit Project Nutrition (431 Boylston Avenue East, HS $28,623 $28,623 HSD: y House 98102) 27,628 Community Mental Provide hot, nutritionally balanced meals to Services: Health low-income persons seven days a week in a Emergency & residential mental health care setting. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 El Mass Feeding Program (2524 16th Avenue South, HS $20,808 $20,808 HSD: Centro 98144) 20,085 Community de la Provide hot, nutritiously balanced meals to Services: Raza low-income persons Monday - Friday. Services Emergency & are targeted to the limited English-speaking Transitional and culturally isolated of the Chicano/Latino Services community and to low income people of the Beacon Hill, Rainier Valley, Georgetown, and South Park areas. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Phinney Phinney Neighborhood Soup Kitchen (6532 HS $18,771 $18,771 HSD: Neighbor Phinney Avenue North, 98103) 18,119 Community -hood Provide hot, nutritiously balanced meals to Services: Assn. low-income persons in a setting which offers Emergency & social support and fosters good nutritional Transitional health. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Seattle Hot Meals Program (611 20th Avenue South, HS $45,589 $45,589 HSD: Indian 98144) 44,005 Community Center Provide hot, nutritious meals five (5) days Services: per week Monday - Friday, to low-income Emergency & clients of the Seattle Indian Center, Seattle Transitional Indian Health Board, and the community. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Food Home Delivery Service (611 20th Avenue South, HS $58,441 $58,441 HSD: Bank @ 98144) 56,410 Community St. Provide home delivery of food to low income Services: Mary's homebound seniors and individuals recovering Emergency & from major illnesses who live in the Central Transitional area. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Emergenc Emergency Feeding Program (4620 South Findlay HS $29,809 $29,809 HSD: y Street: Citywide) 28,773 Community Feeding Provide emergency, short-term relief in the Services: Program form of food boxes and supplemental food for Emergency & infants through referrals from 82 community Transitional agencies and churches. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Food Food Distribution (1702 NE 150th Street, HS $73,444 $73,444 HSD: Lifeline 98155: Citywide) 64,746 Community Receive donated food from all segments of the Services: food industry and distribute it to Seattle Emergency & meal programs and food banks. [Combined Food Transitional Distribution & Seattle's Table.] Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Food Seattle's Table (1702 NE 150th Street, 98155: HS $0 $0 HSD: Lifeline Citywide) 6,146 Community [Merged with 5250H] Services: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Emergency & 12/31/2001. Transitional Services

 242 Fremont Access to Food Resources (Citywide) HS $26,517 $26,517 HSD: Public Provide information and referral, and 25,596 Community Associat representation in a fair hearing process; and Services: ion outreach and training for clients, staff, and Emergency & volunteers to help them access or keep public Transitional entitlement benefits. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Fremont Food Resources (Citywide) HS $158,166 $158,166 HSD: Public Provide technical assistance, resource 152,670 Community Associat development, data collection, transportation Services: ion of food, public relation, and other support Emergency & services to 28 member food banks in Seattle. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Compass Representative Payee Program (77 S. HS $27,017 $27,017 HSD: Center Washington St, 98104) 26,078 Community Provides case management, banking, and Services: financial management to homeless adults. Emergency & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Transitional 12/31/2001. Services

 242 CAMP CAMP Housing Assistance Program (Citywide) HS $72,509 $72,509 HSD: (Central Provide first months rent, counseling and 69,989 Community Area emergency housing through the provision of Services: Motivati motel vouchers to homeless families. (3,736 Emergency & on bednights) Transitional Program) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Arch-dio Lazarus Day Center Operations (416 2nd Ave, CD 0~~66,235~~$66,235 HSD: cesan 98104) 63,933~~~~~~Community Housing Provide hygiene and laundry facilities, light $2,302 $63,933 Services: Authorit snacks or meals, and information to homeless~~ Emergency & y men and women aged 50 and older. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Arch-dio Noel House Operations (2301 Second Avenue, CD 68,539~~341,933{ $410,472 HSD: cesan 98121) 330,051 - Community Housing Provide emergency shelter, meals, hygiene, $80,421 $330,051 Services: Authorit and supportive services to homeless women.~~ Emergency & y (21,900 bed nights.) Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Arch-dio Womens Winter Shelter (2301 2nd Avenue, HS $0 $0 HSD: cesan 98121) 66,157 Community Housing Provide winter emergency shelter to homeless Services: Authorit women. (3,276 bednights). [Merged with Noel Emergency & y House, Log# 7410C.] Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Arch-dio St Martins Overflow (1561 Alaskan Way S, HS $0 $0 HSD: cesan 98134) 9,883 Community Housing Provide emergency shelter and supportive Services: Authorit services, including food, clothing, showers, Emergency & y hygiene assistance, storage facilities, and Transitional related assistance for men over the age of 50 Services during the winter months (October-March) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Operatio Severe Weather Program (91 Wall St, 98121) ES $7,834 $7,834 HSD: n Provide street count and overflow severe 7,680 Community Nightwat weather program with First Ave Service Center Services: ch to homeless persons. Emergency & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Transitional 12/31/2001. Services

 242 Low Urban Reststop Essential Services (1922 9th ES $117,535 $117,535 HSD: Income Ave, 98121 ) 115,230 Community Housing Provide toilets, showers, washers, dryers, Services: Institut temporary storage, and waiting areas to Emergency & e homeless adults. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Arch-dio Sacred Heart Shelter (232 Warren Avenue N, CD 0~~135,422{ $135,422 HSD: cesan 98109) 130,716~~~~- Community Housing Provide shelter, food, and supportive $4,706 $130,716 Services: Authorit services to homeless 1- or 2-parent families~~ Emergency & y with children and single women for up to 3 Transitional months. Services include needs assessment, Services referrals, counseling, goal setting, and other assistance (8,000 bed nights.) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Arch-dio St. Martin De Porres Shelter (1561 Alaskan CD 72,858~~234,854{ $307,712 HSD: cesan Way S, 98134) 287,136 - Community Housing Provide emergency shelter and supportive $20,576 $287,136 Services: Authorit services including food, clothing, showers,~~ Emergency & y hygiene assistance, storage facilities and Transitional related assistance to male homeless Services individuals over 50 years old. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Arch-dio Women's Wellness Center (1902 Second Ave, HS $221,412 $221,412 HSD: cesan 98101) 213,718 Community Housing Provide hygiene and health services to Services: Authorit homeless and low-income women. Emergency & y Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Transitional 12/31/2001. Services

 242 Compass Hygiene Program (77 S. Washington St, 98104) HS $1,152 $1,152 HSD: Center Provide personal hygiene services including 1,112 Community shavers, toilets, laundry, clothing, and Services: washroom access to homeless persons. Emergency & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Transitional 12/31/2001. Services

 242 Downtown Emergency Shelter Program (517 3rd Ave, 916,186 405,492{ 96,615~~302,710{ $804,817 HSD: 98104) [HS - - Community Emergenc Provide emergency shelter and supportive 518,887 $540,924 $93,255 $304,044 Services: y services for homeless adult persons. HSP: ES~~ Emergency & Service $405,492; GF: $247,002 304,044 Transitional Center Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: CD Services 12/31/2001. 93,255]

 242 El Housing Case Management (2524 16th Avenue S, CD 0~~108,249{ $108,249 HSD: Centro 98144) 104,487~~~~- Community de la Provide bilingual case management services to $3,762 $104,487 Services: Raza assist homeless Chicano/Latino families and~~ Emergency & individuals and other low-income residents of Transitional southeast and southwest Seattle to obtain and Services maintain permanent, affordable housing. Limited emergency housing vouchers or first months rent assistance may be provided as part of case plan. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Fremont Broadview Emergency and Transitional Shelter CD 0~~412,747{ $412,747 HSD: Public (420 Terry Avenue, 98104) 211,957~~~~- Community Associat Provide temporary emergency shelter and $7,630 $211,957 Services: ion transitional housing to homeless single women~~ Emergency & and single women with children. Services Transitional include shelter, crisis intervention, Services counseling, and supportive counseling. [Now incorporates Log# 7710C] Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Fremont Bethlehem House Family Emergency Shelter CD 0~~113,483{ $113,483 HSD: Public (Citywide) 109,540~~~~- Community Associat Provide emergency shelter, counseling and $3,943 $109,540 Services: ion housing vouchers to homeless families.~~ Emergency & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Transitional 12/31/2001. Services

 242 Immanuel Transitional Shelter Program (1215 Thomas CD 29,961~~0~~$29,961 HSD: / Street, 98109) 28,920 $28,920 Community Cascade Provide supportive transitional shelter for $1,041~~~~Services: Emergenc homeless men in recovery from chronic  Emergency & y homelessness and joblessness drug/alcohol Transitional Services addiction. Provide shelter services, hot Services meals, counseling, goal setting, and employment services. (3,285 bed nights.) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Immanuel Hygiene Center (1215 Thomas St, 98109) HS $22,920 $22,920 HSD: / Provide personal hygiene services including 22,124 Community Cascade showers, toilets, laundry, and washroom Services: Emergenc access to homeless persons. Emergency & y Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Transitional Services 12/31/2001. Services

 242 Salvatio Homeless Family Assistance Program (1101 Pike 191,882 78,025~~120,765{ $198,790 HSD: n Army Street: Citywide) [CD - Community Provide case management, rental subsidies, 116,568 $82,222 $116,568 Services: and other support services for an average of HS~~ Emergency & six months for homeless families referred by 75,314] Transitional area emergency shelter and other homeless Services service providers, to assist them to secure and maintain permanent housing. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Salvatio Pike Women's Program (1101 Pike St, 98101) HS $23,707 $23,707 HSD: n Army Provide emergency housing for women for up to 22,883 Community six months. Services include meals, hygiene, Services: and case management. Emergency & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Transitional 12/31/2001. Services

 242 Seattle Emergency Housing For Families (1025 E Fir 292,411 302,938{ 0~~$302,938 HSD: Emergenc St, 98122) [CD -~~~~Community y Provide emergency shelter and counseling 27,510 $275,428 27,510 Services: Housing services for homeless families in Seattle HS~~ Emergency & Service Housing Authority apartment units. 264,901] Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Seattle Emergency Services (611 12th Avenue S, 98144) CD 0~~43,397~~$43,397 HSD: Indian 41,889~~~~~~Community Center Provide emergency shelter for homeless $1,508 $41,889 Services: families, couples, and adults with children,~~ Emergency & and supportive services including food, Transitional hygiene kits, infant supplies, and telephone Services services. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Family Transitional Aid for the Homeless (Citywide) HS $134,680 $134,680 HSD: Services Provide emergency shelter, case management, 130,000 Community and other support services to assist homeless Services: families and individuals who are new to or Emergency & leaving the Seattle-King County area. (14,500 Transitional bed nights.) Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 YWCA of Angeline's Day Center (1118 5th Avenue, CD 0~~276,415{ $276,415 HSD: Seattle 98101) 266,810~~~~- Community King Provide a daytime shelter for chronically $9,605 $266,810 Services: County homeless lowincome women. Services include~~ Emergency & hygiene, laundry, and supportive services. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 YWCA of Downtown Shelter For Women and Children (1118 CD 0~~147,720{ $147,720 HSD: Seattle 5th Avenue, 98101) 142,587~~~~- Community King Provide emergency shelter and counseling $5,133 142,587 Services: County services for homeless women and children in~~ Emergency & crisis. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Fremont Bethlehem House (7132 35th Ave NW, 98117) ES $17,829 $17,829 HSD: Public Provide transitional shelter (and support 17,479 Community Associat services) to 28 homeless women and children. Services: ion (Operations $10,100, Services, $7,036) Emergency & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Transitional 12/31/2001. Services

 242 YWCA of Emergency Housing For Families (2820 E. CD 0~~73,278~~$73,278 HSD: Seattle Cherry Street, 98122) 70,732~~~~~~Community King Provide emergency shelter for 2- and 1-parent $2,546~~~~Services: County homeless families; also provide supportive~~ 70,732 Emergency & services.  Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Casa Coordinated Street Outreach (Citywide) HS $67,058 $67,058 HSD: Latina Provide information , advocacy, and referral 64,728 Community to Spanish-speaking homeless persons to help Services: them to stabilize. Provide daily outreach on Emergency & shelters, day shelters, and day-labor pickup Transitional sites. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Arch-dio Aloha Inn (1911 Aurora Avenue N, 98109) CD 0~~215,142{ $215,142 HSD: cesan Partially support operation of a self-managed 207,666~~~~- Community Housing transitional housing facility serving $7,476 207,666 Services: Authorit previously homeless men and women.~~ Emergency & y Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Transitional 12/31/2001. Services

 242 Church Homelessness Project (Citywide: 12 service CD 0~~25,287~~$25,287 HSD: Council sites located throughout Seattle, access site 24,408~~~~~~Community of is 4759 15th Avenue NE, 98105) $879~~~~Services: Greater Provide transitional housing, case 24,408 Emergency & Seattle management, and support services for homeless~~ Transitional families with children for up to 18 months. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Fremont ~~Broadview Transitional Housing (420 Terry CD 0~~0~~$0 HSD: Public Avenue, 98104) 186,448~~~~~~~~~~~~Community Associat~~~~Provide transitional shelter, $6,712 186,448 Services: ion counseling, support and referral services to~~ Emergency & homeless women and children. [Combined Transitional with Log# 7510C.] Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Seattle Transitional Housing SE Seattle (5900 37th CD 0~~26,406 $26,406 HSD: Emergenc Avenue S, 98126) 25,488~~~~~~Community y Provide transitional housing and case $918~~~~$25,488 Services: Housing management services for homeless families for  Emergency & Service up to 6 months. Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 242 Church The Sharehouse (Citywide) HS $69,359 $69,359 HSD: Council Collects and distributes material goods to 66,949 Community of assist emergency shelter and other programs Services: Greater serving homeless people with items needed to Emergency & Seattle operate and to assist homeless households Transitional with furnishings needed for permanent Services housing. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Low Housing Guide Publication (Citywide) HS $12,262 $12,262 HSD: Income Prepare the annual publication of low-income 11,836 Community Housing programs and services. Services: Institut Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Emergency & e 12/31/2001. Transitional Services

 242 Crisis Community Information Line-housing Assistance HS $35,729 $35,729 HSD: Clinic Project (Citywide) 34,487 Community Provide phone information and referrals with Services: a special focus on improving access and Emergency & assistance to those in need of housing Transitional services, such as emergency shelter, eviction Services prevention, mortgage assistance, and permanent housing resources. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 Fremont Community Voice-mail Project (Citywide) HS $18,473 $18,473 HSD: Public Provide voice mail boxes for primarily 17,831 Community Associat homeless individuals and families who do not Services: ion have telephones to improve their access to Emergency & housing, employment, medical, legal, and Transitional other social services and information. Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 242 City of Emergency Shelter Grant Program ES $26,600 $26,600 HSD:Communit Seattle Administration (Office: 618 2nd Avenue) 26,600 y Services: HSD Emergency Shelter Grant Program Emergency & Administration Transitional Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 2425 Emergency & Transitional Services Subtotal 5,883,92 $3,037,7 $2,437,9 $472,508 $0 $0 $5,948,1 7 40 48 96

 2429 Tenant Stabilization

 243 Salvatio Rent Assistance (Citywide) HM $350,000 $350,000 HSD: n Army Provide case management, rental subsidies, 350,000 Community and other support services for an average of Services: six months for homeless families referred by Tenant area emergency shelter and other homeless Stabilizatio service providers, to assist them to secure n and maintain permanent housing. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 ARC Protective Payee Services for Homeless (10550 HS $40,289 $40,289 HSD: Lake City Way NE, 98125) 38,889 Community Provide comprehensive case management and Services: financial management services to homeless Tenant adults with developmental disabilities Stabilizatio enabling them to transition to and/or n maintain a stable life situation. (500 financial management services, 240 support/advocacy services, and 82 services assisting clients to establish permanent housing) Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Catholic Family Assistance Program (100 23rd Avenue HS $14,475 $14,475 HSD: South, 98144) 13,972 Community Communit Provide financial assistance to low-income Services: y families either in the form of first month's Tenant Services rent and/or deposit for move-in, or rental Stabilizatio (CCS) assistance to assist the family in avoiding n eviction. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Arch-dio Frye Human Services (223 Yesler Way, 98104) HS $12,327 $12,327 HSD: cesan Provide case management and/or other 11,899 Community Housing supportive services to residents of the Services: Authorit AHA-managed Frye Apartments at risk of Tenant y eviction. Stabilizatio Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: n 12/31/2001.

 243 Arch-dio St. Martin's on Westlake (2008 Westlake CD 0~~26,998~~$26,998 HSD: cesan Avenue N, 98102) 26,060~~~~~~Community Housing Provide desk security and other supportive $938~~ $26,060 Services: Authorit services to men over 55 years of age at risk  Tenant y of homelessness. (Security staff hours: Stabilizatio 2,113. Elderly men housed: 60.) n Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Easter Housing Assistance for Persons with HS $23,686 $23,686 HSD: Seal Disabilities (Citywide) 22,863 Community Society Provide disabled clients with assistance in Services: locating affordable and accessible housing. Tenant Provide public education on barrier-free Stabilizatio design requirements. n Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 ID Emergency Services Officer ( CT 91 & 92) HS $14,894 $14,894 HSD: Emergenc Conduct safety patrols in and around the 14,376 Community y International District to monitor for unsafe Services: Center situations and provide emergency services. Tenant Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Stabilizatio 12/31/2001. n

 243 Plymouth Housing Support Services (Service Sites: 2201 CD 0~~62,184~~$62,184 HSD: 1st Avenue, 98101; 2205 1st Avenue, 98101; 60,023~~~~~~Community Housing 107 Pine Street, 98101; 1521 7th Avenue, $2,161 $60,023 Services: Group 98121;and 619 3rd Avenue, 98104)~~ Tenant Place low-income tenants in permanent Stabilizatio affordable housing and provide client n assessment and referral services to link tenants with support services such as financial resources, employment counseling. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Neighbor Project REACH (905 Spruce Street, 98104; 4500 CD 0~~258,685{ $258,685 HSD: -hood Martin Luther King Jr Way South, 98118) 249,696~~~~- Community House Provide comprehensive case management $8,989 $249,696 Services: assistance to low-income and at-risk~~ Tenant residents in the SHA garden communities of Stabilizatio Yesler Terrace and Rainier Vista to help them n maintain their permanent housing and obtain and retain employment. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 YWCA of Project Self-sufficiency (Citywide) CD 0~~98,797~~$98,797 HSD: Seattle Serve families living in Section 8 and 95,364~~~~~~Community King scattered site public housing in Central and $3,433~~~~Services: County Southeast Seattle who have multiple barriers~~ 95,364 Tenant to self-sufficiency; this program will assist  Stabilizatio them in finding suitable housing, increasing n family stability, developing work skills, and entering employment. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Family Resident Choices (9714 3rd Avenue NE, 98117) CD 0~~258,685{ $258,685 HSD: Services Provide case management, therapeutic, and 249,696~~~~- Community family support services to residents of $8,989 $249,696 Services: Seattle Housing Authority's High Point Garden~~ Tenant Community and residents of other public Stabilizatio housing units in West and North Seattle. n Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Fremont Housing Stabilization Partnership ~~Eviction CD 0~~176,331{ $176,331 HSD: Public Prevention~~~~(Office: 215 W. Harrison St.: 71,101 ~~- Community Associat Citywide) $2,560 $71,101 Services: ion Provide citywide services including:~~ Tenant telephone hotline for tenants, information Stabilizatio and referral, counseling, outreach, n relocation services, and workshops on landlord/tenant relationships, and, as lead agency, maintain a coordinated intake system for countywide tenant services. Subcontract with Legal Action Center: $27,485; ID Housing Alliance: $69,263; and FPA: $73,661. Incorporates projects Log# 7372C & 7385. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Internat International District Housing Alliance (N/A) CD 0~~0~~$0 HSD: ional Provide housing counseling, advocacy, housing 66,856~~~~~~~~~~Community District search, and information/referral services to $2,407 $66,856 Services: assist low income housholds at risk of~~ Tenant Housing eviction acquire or maintain permanent Stabilizatio & housing. n Social Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Services 12/31/2001.

 243 Salvatio Rental Assistance Collaboration Effort: RACE 20,224 20,952~~0~~$20,952 HSD: n Army (Citywide) [CD~~~~~~Community Provide financial assistance with emergency 10,612 $10,340 $10,612 Services: rent and move-in costs to eligible low income HS~~ Tenant households; services are provided by a 9,612] Stabilizatio coalition of rental assistance agencies in n conjunction with the Salvation Army. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Tenants Technical Assistance to at Risk Tenants CD 0~~76,959~~$76,959 HSD: Union (Citywide) 74,285~~~~~~Community Provide a telephone hotline for tenants, $2,674~~~~Services: information and referral, and workshops on~~ 74,285 Tenant landlord/tenant counseling. Provide in-depth  Stabilizatio conseling to tenants at immediate risk of n eviction. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Catholic Legal Action Center (N/A) CD 0~~0~~$0 HSD: Provide legal information, assistance, and 26,530~~~~~~~~~~Community Communit advocacy to low income households at risk of $955~~ $26,530 Services: y eviction.  Tenant Services Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Stabilizatio 12/31/2001. n

 243 Compass Recovery Transitional Housing (77 S. CD 0~~14,451~~$14,451 HSD: Center Washington St, 98104) 13,949~~~~~~Community Provide transitional housing for homeless men $502~~~~Services: and women in recovery from substance abuse, 13,949 Tenant including case management and supportive~~ Stabilizatio counseling. (6,060 bed nights.) n Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Multiple Project Sponsor Administrative Costs (Various HP 0~~$0 HSD: sites in Seattle, Everett, and Coupeville) 4,000 $4,000 Community agencies Cost for subrecipients to administer~~ Services: HOPWA-funded programs, to a maximum Tenant per-sponsor of 7% of total contract award. Stabilizatio [Agency names: Bailey-Boushay House; n Snohomish Health District; Northwest AIDS Foundation; Housing Authority of Snohomish County; Island County Housing Authority; Rosehedge; Multifaith Works; AIDS Housing of Washington.] Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Bailey-B Residential Care (2720 East Madison St., HP 0~~$0 HSD: oushay 98112) 49,201 $49,201 Community House Provide nursing and supportive care to~~ Services: disabled AIDS clients, and medically Tenant stabilize them to the point at which they may Stabilizatio be discharged to return home or to a less n intensive care residential setting. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Rosehedg Housing & Assisted Living Services (12718 HP 0~~$0 HSD: e 15th Avenue NE, 98125) 62,777 $62,777 Community Agency will admit persons disabled by AIDS~~ Services: for medium- to long-term residency in its Tenant facilities, provide assisted-living, Stabilizatio supportive care services, and provide n assistance with placement into other long term housing as needed. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Catholic Housing & Support Services for People with HP 0~~$0 HSD: AIDS (3020 Rucker Avenue, Everett) 199,652 $199,652 Community Communit Provide a range of transitional housing~~ Services: y assistance; search and referral service, and Tenant Services housing supportive services to persons with Stabilizatio of HIV/AIDS. n Western Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: WA/NW 12/31/2001. ~~Snohomis h Health Dist~~

 243 Lifelong Housing Assistance Services (127 Broadway Ave 442,214 0~~61,346~~0~~$61,346 HSD: AIDS E, 98102) (HP~~~~~~$383,000 Community Alliance Provide housing units for short to medium 383,000 $2,132 $59,214~~~~Services: ~~term residency, housing information and CD~~ Tenant Northwes referral services, and limited supportive 59,214) Stabilizatio t AIDS services to persons disabled by AIDS, and n Found provide rent assistance to maintain HOPWA-eligible clients in their homes. [Incorporates 7730C.] Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Multifai Multifaith AIDS Projects (MAPS) (1729 Harvard HP 0~~$0 HSD: th Ave, 98122) 60,590 $60,590 Community Works Agency will admit persons disabled by AIDS~~ Services: for transition to long term residency in its Tenant group home facilities, provide limited daily Stabilizatio assisted living support, and provide n assistance with placement into long term housing. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 Housing HOPWA Rent Assistance (12525 4TH Ave W., HP 0~~$0 HSD: Authorit Everett) 154,080 $154,080 Community y of Temporary rent assistance/subsidies are~~ Services: Snohomis provided to eligible HIV/AIDS households. Tenant h Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Stabilizatio County 12/31/2001. n

 243 Island Rent Assistance Program (7 NW 6th St., HP 0~~$0 HSD: County Coupeville) 9,600~~$15,000 Community Housing Provide rent assistance/subsidies to HP~~~~Services: Authorit persons/households with HIV/AIDS. 15,000 Tenant y Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date:  Stabilizatio 12/31/2001. n

 243 Downtown Lyon Building Housing & Supportive Services HP 0~~$0 HSD: (507 3rd Ave, 98104) 77,489 $77,489 Community Emergenc Agency will serve persons disabled by AIDS~~ Services: y for medium to long term residency in its Lyon Tenant Service Building facility, provide limited daily Stabilizatio Center assisted living support, and provide n assistance with placement into other long term housing as needed. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 AIDS AIDS Housing Resource Development (2025 1st HP 0~~$0 HSD: Housing Ave, 98121) 11,181 $11,061 Community of WA Staff two newly created task forces that will~~ Services: examine various approaches to meeting Tenant expanding housing needs of people with Stabilizatio HIV/AIDS in Seattle-King County. Provide a n final report with recommendations and a cost analysis to the AIDS Housing Committee. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 AIDS Residential Unit Set-aside/ Buy Down Program HP 0~~$0 HSD: Housing (2025 1st Ave, 98121) 346,000 $346,000 Community of WA CAPITAL - New construction of multiunit~~ Services: facility to permanently house 8 persons - Tenant CONSTRUCTION COSTS. Stabilizatio Set aside 10 residential units in a n low-income apartment building through the use of HOPWA funds to subsidize the rents of these units. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 243 To be HOPWA Services RFP (NA) $1,476,3 $1,476,3 HSD: determin HSD will conduct a request for proposals to 40 40 Community ed determine the projects and the agencies which Services: will carry out the services funded with the Tenant 2001 HOPWA allocation. Stabilizatio n

 243 City of HOPWA Grantee Administration (Office: 618 2nd HP $45,660{ $45,660 HSD: Seattle Avenue) 42,030 - Community HSD Costs of HSD to administer HOPWA-funded $37,935 Services: programs in the King/Snohomish/Island Tenant Counties EMSA . Stabilizatio Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: n 12/31/2001.

 2435 Tenant Stabilization Subtotal 2,864,59 $126,623 $1,034,4 $0 $1,522,0 $350,000 $3,033,0 7 36 00 59

 2439 Systems & Resources Development

 244 Fremont Fair Budget (Citywide) HS $74,854 $74,854 HSD: Public Empower low income people to advocate for 72,253 Community Associat economic and social justice. Educate the Services: ion public about poverty issues. Systems & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Resources 12/31/2001. Development

 244 Fremont M L King Volunteer Corps (Citywide) HS $15,794 $15,794 HSD: Public Provide support for and coordination of 15,245 Community Associat AmeriCorps*VISTA Volunteers. Services: ion Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Systems & 12/31/2001. Resource Development

 244 City of Homeless Opportunities Training Program ES $0 0~~$0 HSD: Seattle (Citywide) 14,889~~~~Community HSD Provide trainings to direct service staff $10,666 Services: serving homeless persons.~~ Systems & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Resources 12/31/2001. Development

 244 Fremont FEMA Administration (Citywide) HS $4,086 $4,086 HSD: Public Provide a clearinghouse service for agencies 3,944 Community Associat receiving FEMA funds to prevent duplication Services: ion of services to clients. Systems & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Resource 12/31/2001. Development

 244 Crisis Sound Connections (N/A) HS $15,851 $15,851 HSD: Clinic Provide computerized information and 15,300 Community technology assistance to nonprofit agencies Services: providing community comprehensive services. Systems & Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Resource 12/31/2001. Development

 2445 Systems & Resources Development Subtotal 121,631 $110,585 $0 $0 $0 $0 $110,585

 2447 Community Services Subtotal 10,796,0 $3,274,9 $6,035,4 $472,508 $1,522,0 $350,000 $11,654, 85 48 71 00 927

 2505 Domestic Violence Prevention

 2509 Planning

 251 City of Sexual Assault Victim Services (Citywide) HS $6,620 $6,620 HSD: Seattle Expand victim services, to be determined at 6,390 Domestic HSD the conclusion of a three-year regional Violence planning effort which will be completed in Prevention: the Spring of 1999 and which will identify Planning prioritized unmet needs. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 2515 Planning Subtotal 6,390 $6,620 $0 $0 $0 $0 $6,620

 2519 Education & Training

 252 HSD: Abused Sexual Assault Counseling (2627 Eastlake Ave. HS $45,409 $45,409 Domestic Deaf E, 98102) 43,831 Violence Women's Provide information & referral, crisis Prevention: Advocacy intervention, legal and medical advocacy for Education & victims; outreach and education to teens, the Training deaf and deaf/blind communities and community institutions. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 252 HSD: Harborvi Sexual Assault Victim Services (1401 E. HS $246,252 $246,252 Domestic ew Jefferson St, 98104) 237,695 Violence Center Provide information & referral, crisis Prevention: for intervention, legal and medical advocacy, Education & Sexual financial advocacy (for affordable therapy) Training Assault for victims and their families; offer and professional education on sexual issues. Traumati Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: c 12/31/2001. Stress

 252 HSD: Seattle Prevention & Intervention Service (1905 S. HS $179,753 $179,753 Domestic Rape Jackson, 98144) 173,507 Violence Relief Provide information & referral, crisis Prevention: intervention, legal and medical advocacy and Education & support groups for victims. Training Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 252 HSD: New New Beginnings Shelter For Battered Women 176,361 0~~174,754{ $7,834 $182,588 Domestic Beginnin (Restricted address) [CD~~~~- Violence gs Provide shelter, crisis intervention, 168,681 $6,073 $168,681 Prevention: counseling, support and referral services to ES~~ Education & women and children who are victims of 7,680] Training domestic violence. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 252 HSD: Salvatio Catherine Booth House (Restricted Address) 106,630 $102,512 $7,834 $110,346 Domestic n Army Provide confidential temporary shelter to [ES Violence women and children victims of domestic 7,680 Prevention: violence. Services include shelter, crisis HS Education & intervention, and supportive counseling. 98,950] Training Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 252 HSD: Salvatio Hickman House (Restricted address) CD 0~~27,384~~$27,384 Domestic n Army Provide transitional housing to women and 26,432~~~~~~Violence children victims of domestic violence through $952~~ $26,432 Prevention: the use of 9 furnished 1- and 2-bedroom  Education & apartments for up to 6 months, including Training supportive counseling and referral services. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 2525 Education & Training Subtotal 764,456 $573,926 $202,138 $15,668 $0 $0 $791,732

 2527 Domestic Violence Prevention Subtotal 770,846 $580,546 $202,138 $15,668 $0 $0 $798,352

 29 Human Services Department Subtotal 18,606,5 $7,593,1 $9,711,5 $520,000 $1,522,0 $350,000 $19,696, 65 58 94 00 752

 3 Seattle & King Co Public Health

 31 Clinical Health Services/Primary Care Assurance

 3109 Community Health Center Partnerships

 311 45th Medical, Dental Access (1629 North 45th St, HS $567,124 $567,124 Health: Street 98103) 547,417 Clinical Clinic Provide Primary Medical Care, Dental Care and Health Access services to low-income adults and Services/Pri children. HSP supports a portion of the total mary Care program's uncompensated/uninsured patients. Assurance: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Community 12/31/2001. Health Center Partnerships

 311 YWCA of Access & Health Care For The Homeless HS $35,653 $35,653 Health: Seattle (Citywide) 34,414 Clinical King Provide health care access services focusing Health County on homeless families at 23 shelters and Services/Pri transitional housing sites city-wide. mary Care Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Assurance: 12/31/2001. Community Health Center Partnerships

 311 Center Access, Interpretation, And Advocacy (105 HS $106,422 $106,422 Health: for 14th Ave, 98122) 102,724 Clinical Multicul Provide the primary language bank and refugee Health tural advocacy program that serves non-profit Services/Pri Health community Health Centers in Seattle that mary Care receive HSP funds. HSP funds support a Assurance: portion of the total program's outreach, Community advocacy, interpretation and clinic-linkage Health services that are not compensated by Medicaid Center or categorical funding sources. Partnerships Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 311 Country Medical & Access (500 19th Ave. East, 98112; HS $805,143 $805,143 Health: Doctor 2101 East Yesler Way, 98122) 777,165 Clinical Comm Provide Primary Medical Care and Dental Care Health Health to low income adults and children, with a Services/Pri Center; focus on Capitol Hill and Central Area mary Care Carolyn populations; services are available to Assurance: Downs city-wide residents. HSP funds support a Community Comm portion of the total program's Health Health uncompensated/uninsured patients. Center Center Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Partnerships 12/31/2001.

 311 Harborvi Medical & Access: Pioneer Square Clinic (206 HS $233,332 $233,332 Health: ew 3rd Ave. South, 98104) 225,224 Clinical Medical Provide Primary Medical Care and Access Health Center: services with a focus on adult downtown and Services/Pri Pioneer homeless populations; services are available mary Care Square to city-wide residents of all ages. HSP Assurance: Communit supports a portion of the total program's Community y uncompensated/uninsured population. Health Clinic Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Center 12/31/2001. Partnerships

 311 Internat Medical, Dental, & Access (416 Maynard Ave. HS $180,701 $180,701 Health: ional South,98104; 720 8th Ave. South, 98104) 174,422 Clinical Communit Provide Primary Medical Care, Dental Care and Health y Access services to low-income adults and Services/Pri Health children, with a geographic focus on the mary Care Services International District and Holly Park Assurance: neighborhoods (although services are Community available to city-wide residents). HSP Health supports a portion of the total program's Center uncompensated/uninsured patients. Partnerships Performance Indicator: Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 311 Odessa Dental (2101 East Yesler Way, 98122) HS $54,041 $54,041 Health: Brown Provide dental services to low-income 52,163 Clinical Children children, focusing on families in the Central Health 's Area, but services are available to families Services/Pri Clinic city-wide. mary Care Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Assurance: 12/31/2001. Community Health Center Partnerships

 311 Pike Medical & Access (1930 Post Alley, 98101) HS $294,025 $294,025 Health: Market Provide Primary Medical Care and Access 283,808 Clinical Medical services to low-income patients, with a Health Clinic special focus on Downtown residents and Services/Pri homeless people. Services are available to mary Care city-wide residents. HSP supports a portion Assurance: of the total program's Community uncompensated/uninsured patients. Health Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Center 12/31/2001. Partnerships

 311 Puget Medical Dental Access (6200 13th Ave South, HS $1,560,7 $1,560,7 Health: Sound 98108; 6536 32nd Ave. SW, 98126; 440 37th 1,506,50 38 38 Clinical Neighbor Avenue S, 98144; 3800 So. Myrtle Pl, 98118; 4 Health -hood 2101 E. Yesler Way, 98122; 6554 32nd Ave SW, Services/Pri Health 98126) mary Care Centers Provide Primary Medical, Dental and Access Assurance: services to low income adults and children. Community Services are available to city-wide Health residents. HSP supports a portion of the Center total program's uncompensated/uninsured Partnerships patients. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 311 Sea Mar Medical & Dental (1040 South Henderson St, HS $118,485 $118,485 Health: Communit 98118) 114,368 Clinical y Primary Medical Care and Dental Care for low Health Health income adults and children, with a focus on Services/Pri Center Hispanic immigrant communities; services are mary Care available to city-wide residents. HSP Assurance: supports a portion of the total program's Community uncompensated/uninsured patients. Health Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Center 12/31/2001. Partnerships

 311 Seattle Medical, Dental, & Access (611 12th Ave. HS $193,549 $193,549 Health: Indian South, 98144) 186,823 Clinical Health Provide Primary Medical Care, Dental Care and Health Board Access services with a focus on urban Indian Services/Pri populations; services are available to mary Care city-wide residents. HSP supports a portion Assurance: of the total program's Community uncompensated/uninsured patients. Health Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Center 12/31/2001. Partnerships

 311 Seattle- Dental Services for Uninsured Adults HS $192,686 $192,686 Health: King (Citywide) 185,990 Clinical County Provide adult dental care services to Health Public low-income, uninsured adults. Services/Pri Health Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: mary Care Dept 12/31/2001. Assurance: Community Health Center Partnerships

 3115 Community Health Center Partnerships 4,191,02 $11,935, $0 $0 $0 $0 $11,935, Subtotal 2 057 057

 319 Clinical Health Services/Primary Care 4,191,02 $11,935, $0 $0 $0 $0 $11,935, Assurance Subtotal 2 057 057

 39 Seattle & King Co Public Health Subtotal 4,191,02 $19,528, $0 $0 $0 $0 $19,528, 2 215 215

 4 Office of Economic Development

 41 Workforce Development

 4109 Seattle Jobs Initiative Operations

 411 City of Community Economic Development Program 1,281,33 $753,686 566,343{ $1,320,0 OED: Seattle (Citywide) 8 - 29 Workforce OED This program combines workforce development [CD $536,343 Development: and community revitalization. Workforce 553,842 development provides services to businesses, HS SJI Seattle business and community organizations, and 727,496] Jobs residents so that employers meet their need Initiative for qualified workers and so that low income [Plus two individuals can secure and retain family wage other LOBs, jobs. Workforce development includes the with seven Workforce System Reform Initiative (CDBG other funds), the Employment Linkage Program (CDBG Programs] funds), and the Seattle Jobs Initiative (HSP funds). The Workforce System Reform Initiative includes policy, financial analyses, and program development services by OED staff to help employers obtain qualified workers and to help residents secure and retain family wage jobs. The Employment Linkage program includes negotiated employment agreements by OED staff so that low-income individuals can secure family wage jobs. The Seattle Jobs Initiative provides recruitment, training, and job retention services to low-income job seekers and employers so that job seekers achieve economic independence and employers have  access to a skilled workforce. Community revitalization will include technical assistance to CDBG eligible economic development projects by the staff of the Office of Economic Development. OED will work with community agencies to implement community development strategies and Neighborhood Revitalization Strategies within their communities, as well as manage economic development and financial assistance in Southeast Seattle, the Central Area, the International District, Delridge, Pioneer Square, and the Duwamish (CDBG funds). Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 4115 Seattle Jobs Initiative Operations $753,686 $566,343 $0 $0 $0 $1,320,0 Subtotal 29 1,281,33 8

 419 Workforce Development Subtotal 1,281,33 $753,686 $566,343 $0 $0 $0 $1,320,0 8 29

 42 Neighborhood and Community Development

 4209 Community Development Corporations

 421 OED: City of Data Research For Neighborhood Revitalization CD 65,000~~$65,000 Neighborhood Seattle Strategy Areas (Citywide) 15,000 & OED A data profile for each Neighborhood~~~~Community Revitalization Strategy (NRS) area has been $15,000 Development: developed which provides a current picture of~~ housing, employment, and business activity. Community This profile will provide a base for Development measuring changes annually over the five year Corporations review period for the strategies. An annual update will be conducted and will include: 423 OED: - median home sale prices and rental prices Neighborhood that relate to affordability levels in the & NRS areas; and Community - employment information by business sector Development: and by amount of earnings for employees; and, commercial vacancy rates. Neiborhood Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Business 12/31/2001. District Support

 421 City of Community Development Technical & Project CD 941,715 $941,715 OED: Seattle Assistance (Citywide) 837,561 ~~Neighborhood OED, In 2001 the Office of Economic Development 877,561 & individu (OED) will fund an agency to provide specific $837,561 Community al CDCs technical assistance to community development~~ Development: and corporations economic and community Seattle development projects. In addition, OED will Community Communit fund five community development corporations Development y to work on specific housing, commercial, and Corporations Developm community development projects. ent Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Collabor 12/31/00. ative

 421 SEED Southeast Capital Improvement Program (N/A) 135,000 $0 $0 OED: (Southea Fund a public improvement program through a CD ~~Neighborhood st Southeast Seattlebased community development 292,574 & Effectiv agency. Employ lowincome youth trainees for~~ Community e neighborhood infrastructure improvement Development: Economic projects in Southeast Seattle. SEED and SHA will form a "step-up" program to utilize SHA Community Develop- tenants to rebuild portions of Holly Park and Development ment) construct curb ramps, traffic circles, and Corporations sidewalks in Southeast Seattle and elsewhere in the City. Various low-income census tracts to be determined later. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 421 OED: City of Community Development Corporation Equity Fund CD 332,028{ $332,028 Neighborhood Seattle (Citywide) 284,534 - & OED The Community Development Corporation Equity $317,499 Community Fund is a fund set up to support equity Development: necessary for retail, commercial and/or mixed use development projects of the CDCs. Community Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: Development 12/31/2001. Corporations

 421 OED: City of Earthquake Recovery Technical Assistance $25,000 $25,000 Neighborhood Seattle (Citywide) & OED Monitor the earthquake recovery efforts of Community nonprofit organization s that provide human Development: services, housing, community development, health, and other services for low- and Community moderate-income people and neighborhoods. Development Possible technical assistance includes Corporations securing federal, state, and private funds to complete disaster-related rehabilitations. Start date: 5/1/2001 - Completion date: 9/30/2001.

 4215 Community Development Corporations Subtotal 1,272,09 $0 $1,363,7 $0 $0 $0 $1,363,7 5 43 43

 4219 Community Development Loans

 422 City of National Development Council Float Loan CD $25,000 $25,000 OED: Seattle Origination (N/A) 25,000 Neighborhood OED Handle marketing and outreach for the CDBG & Float Loan Program, provide technical Community assistance to prospective borrowers. Meet Development: with 15 prospective float loan borrowers and originate 3 new float loans. Provide Community technical assistance to existing borrowers. Development The Section 108 and Community Development Loans Float Loan programs provide needed goods and services in low-income communities and provide jobs to low-income individuals. During the 2001-2004 Consolidated Plan timeframe, the only potential loan OED is currently aware of is a proposed grocery store in the Central Area at 23rd and Madison. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 4225 Community Development Loans Subtotal 25,000 $0 $25,000 $0 $0 $0 $25,000

 4229 Neighborhood Business District Support

 423 City of Neighborhood Business District Support 180,911{ $180,911 OED: Seattle (various L/M) - Neighborhood This program assists neighborhood business $160,911 & districts in low-income neighborhoods, Community including a facade improvement program. Development:

 Neighborhood Business District Support

 4235 Neighborhood Business District Support 0 $0 $180,911 $0 $0 $0 $180,911 Subtotal

 429 Neighborhood and Community Development 1,297,09 $0 $1,569,6 $0 $0 $0 $1,569,6 Subtotal 5 54 54

 43 Business Development

 4309 Small Business Assistance

 431 OED Business Tech Assistance (Citywide) CD $150,000 $150,000 OED: Business Provide technical assistance to existing and 100,000 Business startup businesses served by the Community Development: Assistan Capital Development and other lenders and to ce other initiatives, including microenterprise Small Center activities and farmers markets. The goal is Business and to develop and sustain small businesses in Assistance City of Seattle within low-income communities and Seattle create job opportunities for low and OED moderate-income persons. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 4315 Small Business Assistance Subtotal 100,000 $0 $150,000 $0 $0 $0 $150,000

 439 Business Development Subtotal 100,000 $0 $150,000 $0 $0 $0 $150,000

 49 Office of Economic Development Subtotal 2,678,43 $753,686 $2,285,9 $0 $0 $0 $3,039,6 3 97 83

 5 Department of Neighborhoods

 51 Community Building Division

 5109 Neighborhood Matching Fund

 511 City of Neighborhood Matching Fund and Staff CD $186,566 $186,566 DON: Seattle (Citywide) 186,566 Community DON The neighborhood matching Fund provides cash Building support to neighborhood projects to match Division: pledged community resources. The City Neighborhood partners with neighborhood organizations to Matching build parks, install traffic improvements, Fund rehab community facilities or renovate playfields, for example. A citizen review team considers applications to the Fund and makes funding recommendations to the Mayor and City Council. From the list of awarded organizations and projects, several projects intended to enhance the livability of  low-income areas of the city are selected each year to receive the CDBG portion of the Fund. Typically, the selected projects are capital projects. After selection of neighborhood projects the NEPA review is completed prior to the transfer of funds. [ $3,900,434 from other City Sources] Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 5115 Neighborhood Matching Fund Subtotal 186,566 $0 $186,566 $0 $0 $0 $186,566

 5119 Neighborhood Business District Support

 512 City of Neighborhood Plan ~~Central Area CD 88,961~~$88,961 DON: Seattle~~~~Community Project ~~(CT 77, 79, 85-90, & 78,030 Community DON 94)~~ $78,030 Building: Provide an additional $88,961 ~~$78,030~~ Business each year to further the implementation of District ~~the Central Area~~Neighborhood Plan Support projects by providing funding to CDBG eligible projects in the area of economic development. The Early Implementation Fund was established by resolution in June 1998 to begin implementation of one or more high priority projects identified in each of the neighborhood plans being developed throughout the City. The EIF provides $50,000 for each neighborhood plan, and will be managed by the Department of Neighborhoods (DON). CDBG funds will be added to the EIF dollars available for implementation of ~~the Central Area~~neighborhood plan, and will be used towards the achievement of an economic development project(s). ~~Many organizations and individuals in the Central Area have been involved in the neighborhood planning process, and are proposing plan recommendations for land use, economic development, housing, transportation and human development. All or part of CT 77, 79, 85-90, & 94. L/M = 71%.~~ Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 5125 Neighborhood Business District Support 78,030 $0 $88,961 $0 $0 $0 $88,961 Subtotal

 5129 Community Building Division Subtotal 264,596 $0 $275,527 $0 $0 $0 $275,527

 52 Neighborhood Preservation & Development

 5209 Historic Preservation

 521 City of Historic Preservation Staffing (Citywide) CD $21,386 $21,386 DON: Seattle Conduct Section 106 Review, pursuant to 36 22,000 Neighborhood DON CFR 800 of the National Historic Preservation Act, for CDBG-supported programs and Preservation projects, required for compliance with CDBG & environmental review requirements. Development: Determinations of Eligibility for 175 sites, Determinations of Effect for 25 projects, and Historic 10 Consultations. Preservation Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 5215 Historic Preservation Subtotal 22,000 $0 $21,386 $0 $0 $0 $21,386

 5219 Neighborhood Preservation & Development 22,000 $0 $21,386 $0 $0 $0 $21,386 Subtotal

 59 Department of Neighborhoods Subtotal 286,596 $0 $296,913 $0 $0 $0 $296,913

 6 Department of Parks & Recreation

 61 LOB 61

 6109 Program 611

 611 City of Parks Upgrades (Citywide) CD 534,134{ $534,134 Parks: Seattle Perform general capital renovation employing 400,000 - Parks & communitybased labor to make improvements to $500,000 Rec identified park sites. Planned are projects such as: barrierfree access (ADA), erosion control, landscape renovation, irrigation upgrades, and play area improvements. Various low-income census tracts to be determined later. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 611 City of Langston Hughes Cultural Arts Center CD 0~~$0 Parks Seattle Elevators (104 17th Ave. South, 98144) 158,296~~~~Parks & Install two elevators and associated ADA $42,723 Rec accessibility improvements in this City-owned~~ facility. Make ADA accessibility improvements to the auditorium and other portions of a community facility serving residents and groups in the Central Area. CT 87, 90; L/M = 74%. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 6115 Program 611 Subtotal 558,296 $0 $534,134 $0 $0 $0 $534,134

 6119 LOB 61 Subtotal 558,296 $0 $534,134 $0 $0 $0 $534,134

 69 Dept. of Parks & Recreation Subtotal 558,296 $0 $534,134 $0 $0 $0 $534,134

 7 SeaTran

 71 LOB 71

 7109 Program 711

 711 City of Southeast Seattle Sidewalk Project (Southeast CD 0 $100,000 $100,000 SeaTran: Seattle- Seattle) SeaTran Install sidewalks in CDBG-eligible low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. Start date: 1/1/2001 - Completion date: 12/31/2001.

 7115 Program 711 Subtotal 0 $0 $100,000 $0 $0 $0 $100,000

 7119 LOB 71 Subtotal 0 $0 $100,000 $0 $0 $0 $100,000

 79 SeaTran Subtotal 0 $0 $100,000 $0 $0 $0 $100,000

 9 Total: All Lines of Business 36,031,9 $27,875, $17,771, $520,000 $1,522,0 $4,566,0 $52,254, 37 059 152 00 00 211

 91 z C:\_Workspace wpd\_2001 Action Plan by DOLOBCC.wpd Printed 2001-06-19

```
