

********

**Council Bill Number: 113777**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120473**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to Seattle Public Utilities; directing Seattle Public Utilities to participate with other water suppliers in the Central Puget Sound region to develop a regional response plan for the 2001 drought; and authorizing Seattle Public Utilities to enter into agreements in connection therewith.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 6, 2001
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Absent: Wills; Excused: McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 13, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 10, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 30, 2001
   
**Committee:** Full Council
   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, WATER-SUPPLY, REGIONAL-PLANNING, PUBLIC-UTILITIES, WATER-DISTRICTS, WATER-CONSUMPTION

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to Seattle Public Utilities; directing Seattle Public Utilities to participate with other water suppliers in the Central Puget Sound region to develop a regional response plan for the 2001 drought; and authorizing Seattle Public Utilities to enter into agreements in connection therewith.

 WHEREAS, Governor Locke sent a letter dated April 25, 2001 to water suppliers in the Central Puget Sound region requesting that "Puget Sound water suppliers work cooperatively over the summer and fall to meet the needs of residential and business consumers, as well as help safeguard essential streamflows for fish populations"; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities has collaborated with members of the Central Puget Sound Water Suppliers' Forum (the "Forum") to identify utilities that may need additional water supply as a result of this year's drought; and

 WHEREAS, the Forum is collaborating with the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife ("WDFW") to develop action plans to address passage and flow problems on rivers and tributaries identified by WDFW as likely to be impacted by the 2001 drought; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities has collaborated with water suppliers in Snohomish County and north King County to develop agreements to provide additional water supply to offset demands of King County water suppliers during this year's drought and to provide mutual aid in the event of extreme situations; and

 WHEREAS, through Resolution 30259, the City Council directed Seattle Public Utilities to further develop programs and policies that will enhance holistic water resource management and the stewardship of the region's natural resources; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. SPU shall continue to collaborate with other water suppliers and the Forum to develop a regional drought response plan for the 2001 drought, and the Director of SPU is authorized to enter into agreements as needed to effectuate the plan. The Director of SPU is further authorized to execute agreements with suppliers in King County that need additional water during this drought and can be served by SPU, provided that such suppliers demonstrate that they are implementing enhanced water conservation measures and managing their water resources in an environmentally responsible manner.

 The agreements authorized herein may include, but are not limited to, the following:

 A. An agreement, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A, with such changes as are consistent with this ordinance and are deemed by the Director to be in the best interest of the City, with water suppliers in Snohomish and King Counties, for their reduction of water purchases from SPU through the end of 2001;

 B. An agreement, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit B, with such changes as are consistent with this ordinance and are deemed by the Director to be in the best interest of the City, with water suppliers in Snohomish and King Counties, to provide mutual aid, on an as-needed basis, through the end of 2001;

 C. An agreement, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit C, with such changes as are consistent with this ordinance and are deemed by the Director to be in the best interest of the City, with the City of Kent for the purchase of water from SPU through the end of 2001; and

 D. An intertie agreement, substantially in the form as attached as Exhibit D, with such changes as are consistent with this ordinance and are deemed by the Director to be in the best interest of the City, with the City of Kent and the Soos Creek Water and Sewer District for the construction of an intertie connecting the Soos Creek and City of Kent water supply systems.

 Section 2. SPU shall report to the Water Resources, Solid Waste and Public Health Committee of the City Council on the implementation of agreements and the development of the regional drought response plan for the 2001 drought.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2001. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001. ___________________________________ City Clerk

 List of Exhibits:

 EXHIBIT A: SNO-KING BORDER DROUGHT RESPONSE TEAM - VERSION "A" INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR EMERGENCY WATER SUPPLY IN 2001

 EXHIBIT B: SNO-KING BORDER DROUGHT RESPONSE TEAM - INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL AID FOR EMERGENCY WATER SUPPLY IN 2001

 EXHIBIT C: MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT FOR EMERGENCY WATER SUPPLY TO THE CITY OF KENT IN 2001

 EXHIBIT D: CITY OF KENT and SOOS CREEK WATER AND SEWER DISTRICT

 EMERGENCY USE INTER-TIE AGREEMENT

 7/27/01 V.#4 Exhibit A

 SNO-KING BORDER DROUGHT RESPONSE TEAM - VERSION "A"

 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR EMERGENCY WATER SUPPLY IN 2001

 THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into by and between the AGENCIES listed below, all municipal corporations of the State of Washington, hereinafter referred to as "Parties." The following will be parties to this Agreement if they are signatories hereto:

 Snohomish County Parties include the Cities of Edmonds, and Everett, Alderwood Water and Wastewater District (AWWD), Cross Valley Water District (CVWD).

 King County Parties include the City of Seattle and Olympic View Water and Sewer District (OVWSD) and Woodinville Water District (WWD), which receive water from the King County area from Seattle.

 WHEREAS, the governor declared a drought emergency in mid-March and on April 25, 2001 sent a letter to some of the Parties requesting that "Puget Sound water suppliers work cooperatively over the summer and fall to meet the needs of residential and business customers, as well as help safeguard essential stream flows for fish populations." and

 WHEREAS, all Parties own and operate water distribution systems in Snohomish or King County, Washington, and distribute said water on a wholesale or retail basis within their service area; and

 WHEREAS, the Snohomish County Parties wish to provide available emergency water to the King County Parties in order to help alleviate water-shortages and provide water for fish flows by supplying Everett water to areas within Snohomish County that are normally supplied with Seattle water; and

 WHEREAS, Everett owns and operates a water supply located in the Sultan Basin of Snohomish County, Washington. Said system currently has regional supply capability for Everett's present customers as well as 5 MGD for emergency purposes during 2001 for customers outside of its present served area; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to RCW 35.92.170, RCW 35.92.200 and RCW 39.94, Everett is authorized to enter into contracts with other municipalities to supply said municipalities with water; and

 NOW, THEREFORE, for the mutual benefits to be derived, the parties agree as follows:

 1. Delivery of Water.

 A. If the King County area needs additional water supply as mutually determined by Everett and Seattle, Seattle may make a request for water for a specified amount and number of days.

 B. If requested, Everett hereby agrees to deliver the approved amount of emergency water to AWWD for delivery to water distributors in Snohomish County that normally receive water from Seattle. Within the limitations of its system, AWWD will supply specified amounts of emergency water by mutual agreement with each of the following parties: Edmonds, and CVWD.

 C. Within the limitations of their respective systems and the amount of emergency water received under this agreement, Edmonds, and CVWD will supply specified amounts of emergency water by mutual agreement to OVWSD, and WWD respectively, for delivery and use within Snohomish County.

 2. Point of Delivery. Everett shall deliver water to AWWD at Everett Reservoir No. 3. AWWD shall deliver water to its existing customers at existing points of delivery. Other points of delivery shall be those shown in Attachment No. 1.

 3. Quantity of Water. The maximum peak day amount of emergency water delivered under this agreement shall not exceed 2 MGD. Everett shall not be responsible for storage except as it relates to Everett's existing storage at Chaplain Reservoir and Reservoir No. 3. All Parties supplying emergency water under this agreement agree to use best efforts, subject to meeting the requirements of all existing direct and indirect customers, to provide regular and uninterrupted supply of emergency water to those points of delivery in Attachment No. 1 and not to exceed the corresponding capacity amounts in this attachment. Nothing herein shall be construed as obligating any party to take or purchase any minimum quantity of water from any other party. Edmond's delivery obligation shall consist only of providing water to OVWSD subject to limitations within Edmond's system. CVWD delivery obligation shall consist only of supplying existing WWD customers in Snohomish County.

 4. Quality of Water. Everett and its wholesale (direct and indirect) customers agree that all water delivered to "receiving" Parties at the point(s) of delivery shall be of the same standard and quality as that normally delivered by the "supplying" Parties to its existing customers. Supplying Parties shall be responsible for meeting state and federal standards for safe, high-quality drinking water at the point of delivery. All water supplied for use or sale by "receiving" Parties shall be delivered upon the express condition that after it has passed the point of delivery the same becomes the property of the "receiving" Party, and the "supplying" Party shall not be liable for any damages or loss resulting from degradation of water quality which may occur beyond said point. "Supplying"parties shall not be responsible for changes in water quality or operating problems which may result from mixing of different sources of water in the "receiving" parties' system or in systems served by same. Seattle will do any water quality testing required by their current customers.

 5. Rates and Charges.

 A. Rates for water delivered shall be those already established by contract, ordinance or resolution of the Parties plus any "wheeling charges" and "additional emergency water charges" required to recover costs incurred as a direct result of the delivery of any water under this Agreement that are not covered by existing rates.

 B. Everett and AWWD will not apply a demand charge on any additional emergency water delivered under this agreement.

 C. If a party does not have an existing wholesale rate, they may apply a "wheeling" charge to any water supplied under this Agreement. A "wheeling" charge would cover the allocated expense associated with delivering emergency water under this agreement from any location in a party's water system to the water supply point or intertie with another party and would be added to what the supplying party originally paid for the water.

 D. "Additional emergency water charges" may include the following: a) capital costs (See Attachment #1 and #2), b) labor and related benefits, and c) cost of power. "Additional emergency water charges" would NOT include costs, which are already included within existing rates such as, debt service, depreciation, stranded costs, general mark-up percentage, or wear and tear on facilities.

 E. Attachment #2 outlines procedures for charges and how the net revenue will be allocated with the understanding that this allocation method shall in no way be considered to set a precedent for future agreements.

 6. Billing and Payment.

 A. All billings for emergency water delivered to Seattle's existing customers under this agreement shall be submitted to Seattle according to Attachment No 2. The City of Seattle will serve as the "banker" for purposes of this Agreement. As such, Edmonds will bill Seattle for water delivered to OVWSD. CVWD will work with WWD to bill WWD's present customers in Snohomish County to be supplied by CVWD.

 B. In addition, Seattle will be billed for other charges as specified in Section 5. To the extent possible, the "bank" shall be operated to be "revenue-neutral." Should there be any excess revenue, this will be distributed based upon the shares defined in Attachment #2.

 C. The "bank" shall be "transparent" in that all billings, charges, and revenue information shall be made available to all Parties.

 D. On a monthly basis, Parties shall bill Seattle for any emergency water charges related to water made available and/or delivered hereunder. Said bills shall be payable within sixty (60) days after receipt of the invoice. Delinquent bills shall accrue interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum for any delinquency greater than ninety (90) days.

 E. Seattle shall bill its existing wholesale customers for all water delivered to those customers under this agreement as if Seattle had delivered the water through the receiving parties customary meter.

 7. Period of Water Delivery. It is the intent of this Agreement to deliver water for the duration of the state drought emergency or while there are drought-related problems in King County but no later than December 31, 2001 and this is the end of the expected delivery of water under this Agreement except for CVWD, which is taking over service to WWD customers in Snohomish County.

 8. Term of Agreement and Effective Date. The term of this Agreement shall be from the date of its mutual acceptance by the parties until December 31, 2001. The initial effective date of this Agreement shall be the date that the following Parties have all signed: Everett, AWWD, Seattle, Edmonds and OVWSD. Thereafter, the effective date for the party becomes their date of signing.

 9. Continuity of Service.

 A. Continuity of service shall be maintained by Everett and supplying Parties, in a similar manner as service to these Parties' businesses, residences and wholesale customers to the extent feasible, subject to water being available in addition to existing customer demands. In the event of a general emergency or water shortage affecting the Everett Water Supply System, or other Parties' water systems, requiring restrictions on the delivery of water, general restrictions placed upon deliveries to "receiving" Parties shall be determined by a similar method to that used for restricting deliveries to existing customers. In the event of localized emergency problems, temporary service interruptions may result.

 B. According to Everett's Drought Response Plan, once conditions cause it to go to a Stage 3-Mandatory level, emergency water sales outside of Everett's normal service area may be limited to as low as zero.

 C. Supplying Parties shall provide oral notice to "receiving' Parties, and may temporarily interrupt or reduce deliveries of water to any Party, if the supplier determines that such interruption or reduction is necessary or reasonable in case of system emergencies or in order to install equipment, make repairs, replacements, investigations and inspections or perform other maintenance work on the suppliers' water system or those parts of the system supplying Parties. Except in cases of emergency, and in order that Parties' operations will not be unreasonably interfered with, suppliers shall give Parties reasonable written notice of any such interruption or reduction, the reason therefore, and the probable duration thereof.

 10. Indemnity.

 A. Nothing herein shall be interpreted to create indemnity or cross indemnity agreements between the parties. In the event of claim, loss or liability alleged to have arisen out of the ownership or operation of any Parties' water supply system, the parties agree that their liability shall be borne in accordance with and as determined under Washington State Law.

 B. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no party shall be liable under or pursuant to this Agreement for indirect, incidental, special, exemplary or consequential damages, including but not limited to damages for lost profits or benefits, even if such party has been advised of the possibility or existence of such damages.

 11. Uncontrollable Forces or State or Federal Law Changes. No party hereto shall be considered to be in default in respect to any obligations hereunder if prevented from fulfilling such obligations by reason of uncontrollable forces or material changes in state or federal law or enforcement thereof. Parties rendered unable to fulfill any obligation hereunder by reason of an uncontrollable force or material change in state or federal law shall exercise due diligence to deal with such uncontrollable force with all reasonable dispatch and to take actions consistent with the purpose of this agreement.

 12. Existing Contracts. This agreement does not change or amend the existing contracts between any of the Parties.

 13. Notice. Formal notice and official communications between the parties regarding this Agreement shall be sent by first class mail to the addresses in Attachment No. 3.

 14. Relationship of the Parties. This Agreement describes the entire relationship of the parties with regard to the subject matter herein concerned. Except as maybe explicitly provided otherwise herein, the parties are independent agencies and shall not be deemed to be partners, joint ventures, principals, or agents of each other for any purpose whatsoever. Each party shall have and maintain sole and complete control over all of its employees, agents, and operations. Except as may otherwise be explicitly provided herein, or in separate agreement, each and all of the obligations, responsibilities, and liabilities of the parties under and in connection with this Agreement are several, and not joint, and no separate legal or administrative entity will be created to fulfill the purposes of this Agreement.

 15. Dispute Resolution. Any dispute under or in connection with this Agreement may, upon the mutual agreement of the parties, be submitted for resolution by mediation or binding arbitration. Disputes not resolved in such manner shall be resolved in Superior Court for Snohomish County, Washington..

 16. Miscellaneous.

 A. Integration Clause.

 This Agreement, together with Attachments , sets forth the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement. The rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall be subject to and governed by this Agreement. The headings used herein are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

 B. No Third Party Beneficiaries

 Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, none of the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of or be enforceable by any third party.

 C. Waivers

 Except as otherwise provided herein or as agreed by the parities, no provision of this Agreement may be waived except as documented or confirmed in writing. Any waiver at any time by a party of its right with respect to a default under this Agreement, or with respect to any other matter arising in connection therewith, shall not be deemed a waiver with respect to any subsequent default or matter. Any party may waive any notice or agree to accept a shorter notice than specified in this Agreement. Such waiver of notice or acceptance of shorter notice by a party at any time regarding a notice shall not be considered a waiver with respect to any subsequent notice required under this Agreement.

 D. Invalid Provision

 The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the other provisions hereof, and this Agreement shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or unenforceable provisions were omitted.

 E. Amendment

 No change, amendment or modification of any provision of this Agreement shall be valid unless set forth in a written amendment to this Agreement signed by all parties.

 F. Assignment and Subcontracts; Binding Agreement

 No party may assign this Agreement, or assign or subcontract all or any part of such party's rights or obligations under this Agreement, without the prior written consent of the other parties, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Without in any way limiting the foregoing, this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.

 G. Further Assurances

 Each party hereto covenants and agrees to do all things necessary or advisable, including but not limited to the preparation, execution, delivery and recording of any instruments or agreements, in order to confirm and better assure the intent and purposes of this Agreement.

 H. Counterparts

 This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

 I. Signature Clause

 Each of the undersigned signatories represents and warrants that he or she has all necessary and proper authorization to execute and deliver this Agreement on behalf of the party on behalf of which he or she is signing.

 J. Governing law; Venue

 This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The parties (i) agree that any lawsuit or judicial action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement must be heard in the Superior Court of the State of Washington in and for Snohomish County; (ii) waive any objection to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding; and (iii) irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of any such court in any such suit, action or proceeding between the parties.

 K. Rule of Construction

 No provision of the Agreement shall be construed in favor of or against any of the parties hereto by reason of the extent to which any such party or its counsel participated in the drafting thereof or by reason of the extent to which such provision or any other provision or provisions of this Agreement is or are inconsistent with any prior draft thereof.

 L. Attachments

 All attachments referenced in this agreement are hereby incorporated by reference into this agreement.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their proper Officers on the date of their signing.

 CITY OF EVERETT CITY OF EDMONDS

 _____________________________ __________________________ Edward D. Hansen, Mayor Date Gary Haakenson, Mayor Date

 _____________________________ ___________________________ ALDERWOOD WATER & WASTEWATER CROSS VALLEY WATER DISTRICT DISTRICT Paul D. McIntyre, President Date Warren E. Schott Jr., President Date

 WOODINVILLE WATER DISTRICT SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITIES _____________________________ ________________________

 Ken Goodwin, President Date Diana Gale Date

 OLYMPIC VIEW WATER and SEWER DISTRICT ___________________________________ Patricia Meeker, President Date

 A:\Exhibit A.doc Exhibit A - Attachment 1

 SNOHOMISH/KING COUNTY BORDER: EMERGENCY WATER INTERTIES AS OF 7/10/01

 P* = Probability of Implementation: H = High/ Easy; M = Medium/Minor Work; L = Low/ Some Difficulties

 APPROX OPERABLE # P* FROM TO WHOM? LOCATION DIA CAPACITY TODAY? WRITTEN FOOT- WHOM? (gpm) AGMT.? NOTES

 1. H Edmonds Olympic View W.D. 76th Ave. W & 224th 6" 700 YES NO A $5K SW for PSV

 2A. LL OVWD Shoreline(Seattle) NW 205th & 8th NW 6" YES YES $0

 2B. LL OVWD Shoreline(Seattle) NW 205th & Fremont 10" YES YES $0

 3A. L Mountlake Shoreline W.D. 56th Ave W & 244th 10" 1000 YES YES B- Terrace SW $20-25K

 3B. L Mountlake Shoreline W.D. 59th Ave W & 244th 10" 1000 YES YES B-See Terrace SW above

 4. L Alderwood Northshore U.D. Brier Rd & 244th (8") 300 NO NO D-$80K W.D. Need 300' of WM. Design Done Online 8/1 (NUD)

 5. L Alderwood Northshore U.D. Lockwood & Carter 8" 200 YES NO $ 0 W.D.

 6. L Alderwood Bothell 24021 23rd Ave. SE 8" 300 YES YES, for Needs a W.D. intended for Emergency meter fire flow use $6-10K only

 7. L Alderwood Bothell 35th Ave S.E. & 8" 500 NO NO Need 50' W.D. 240th w/PRV- $25-35K

 8. L Alderwood Cross Valley W.D. Hwy 9 & 228th 8"w/ 300- Max-YES YES C-#10 W.D. a 3" Limited by backup meter agreement $0

 9. LL Cross Valley Woodinville W.D. East of 24305 @ SR 8" 500+/ YES NO C-$0 9

 10. H CVWD WWD customers in 24305 @ SR 9 NA 100+/- YES YES $0 Snohomish County

 Footnotes:

 A. The AWD/Edmonds Master Meter needs to be upsized to prevent unacceptable customer pressure drops but this can't be done for summer 2001.

 B. This intertie is for emergency needs not to supplement existing supply to meet day to day demand. It may result in low service pressures and excessive flow velocities. Pressure control devices control flow rate which will be limited to 1000 gpm total for both 3A & 3B

 C. Potential water quality mixing problems with surface and ground water. CVWD doesn't plan to use #9. #8 would be used only if needed by CVWD to augment its groundwater sources

 .D. To be installed at NUD expense

 E. #6 and #7 capital reimbursement cap is $30K.

 .NOTE: Total Capacity of H and M Probability interties is 800+/- gpm or 1.2 MGD with 700gpm or 1.0 MGD coming from AWD.The total capital cost to the project is $55-75K.

 ATTACHMENT 2 TO EXHIBIT A

 Chargeable Participant Costs and Operation of the "Bank"

 A. Receipt of Payments

 1. Initial Payments

 The Bank will be operated by Seattle Public Utilities. It will receive all up-front payments by utilities who contract for the right to Emergency Water deliveries in 2001 pursuant to the Snohomish-King County ILA.

 The Seattle Public Utilities will be responsible for arranging for a contractual agreement with utilities in South King County under which those utilities will provide payment for costs associated with establishing reliable supply connections between Snohomish County utilities not served by the Seattle water supply system and purveyors served by the Seattle water supply system.

 2. Payments for Delivered Water

 The Bank will bill and receive payments for all water delivered to the utilities who contract for Emergency Water supplies in 2001 from the Seattle system pursuant to the Snohomish-King County ILA.

 The Seattle Public Utilities will be responsible for arranging for a contractual agreement with utilities in South King County, which will define those utilities' per unit rates for water delivered from Snohomish County and from the Seattle water supply system.

 B. Disbursement for Chargeable Costs

 1. Initial Capital and Start-Up Costs

 a. The Bank will reimburse participant utilities in the Snohomish- King County ILA for initial capital costs defined in the tables below.

 Party Capital Item Cost [1] Olympic View WSD PSV Valve $5,000 City of Bothell Meter, Pipe Connection $30,000 Shoreline WD Hydraulic Study $10,000

 [1] Capital costs shown are upper limits. The Bank will reimburse actual costs of these projects, up to the limit shown.

 b. The Bank will reimburse participant utilities in the Snohomish- King County ILA for other start-up costs defined in the tables below.

 Party Start-Up Costs Cost [1] City of Everett Organization O/H $0 Alderwood WWD Organization O/H $0 City of Edmonds Organization O/H $0 Olympic View WSD Organization O/H $5000 Cross Valley WD [2] Organization O/H; changeover $610 Woodinville WD Organization O/H $0 Seattle Public Utilities Organization O/H $0 Seattle Public Utilities Economic Consultant 25,000 Seattle Public Utilities Engineering Consultant $15,000

 [1] Overhead and Consultant costs shown are upper limits. The Bank will reimburse actual costs of these projects, up to the limit shown.

 [2] CVWD will incur customer contact costs and labor costs for system flushing, to change from WWD to CVWD supply.

 These reimbursements for initial capital and other start-up costs will be made by Seattle independent of the size or timing of payments received by the Bank.

 2. Per Unit Payments for Delivered Water

 The Bank will remit payments to participating utilities in the Snohomish-King county ILA for all water delivered to South King County water utilities that result from transfers from participating utilities to this Agreement. Those payments will include the following items:

 a. For water delivered as a result of Edmonds supplies to the Olympic View Water District:

 Receiving Party Reimbursed Service Rate/ccf City of Everett Wholesale water sales $0.5324/ccf Alderwood Water District Wheeling water $0.1694/ccf City of Edmonds [1] Wheeling water $0.1050/ccf

 [1] The City of Edmonds wheeling charge is 15% of the cost of wholesale water delivered to the City by Alderwood Water District.

 b. For water delivered as a result of Cross Valley Water District service to former Woodinville Water District customers, if supplied by Alderwood Water District:

 Receiving Party Reimbursed Service Rate/ccf City of Everett: Wholesale water sales $0.5324/ccf [1] Alderwood Water District: Wheeling water $0.1694/ccf [1]

 [1] These charges will only apply if Alderwood Water District is required to deliver water to Cross Valley Water District as a back- up supplier for the new customers to be served by Cross Valley WD pursuant to this Agreement.

 c. The Bank will also reimburse parties for "additional emergency water charges," based on 1) documented labor costs, with related benefits, for operating activities associated with the water transfers, and 2) power costs associated with increased pumping requirements to provide the water transfers, to the extent those costs are not recovered by the per unit payments in the tables in 2.a. and 2.b. above.

 C. Disbursement of Net Revenues from ILA Operations

 1. Initial Revenues and Expenses

 The Bank will receive all initial payments from utilities contracting for access to the Emergency Water defined in this Agreement, and will pay all initial costs defined above to the parties to this Agreement.

 2. Ongoing Revenues and Expenses

 The Bank will receive all payments for water delivered under this Agreement, and will pay all billed costs described above, independent of the size and timing of payments received for water delivered.

 In addition, the Bank will pay all billed costs for wheeling such water deliveries from the Seattle water supply system to the receiving water utilities, according to the terms of separate agreements among the Seattle SPU, the receiving water utilities, and any purveyors who agree to wheel Emergency Water across their systems to the receiving utilities.

 3. Net Revenues

 If the payment obligations for the sum of initial expenses and delivered water sales exceed the revenues from initial payments from South King County utilities and Emergency Water Sales to those utilities, the Seattle Public Utilities agrees to pay the Bank the amount necessary to discharge those payment obligations.

 If the revenues from initial payments from South King County utilities and Emergency Water Sales exceed the itemized payment obligations defined above, including any wheeling payments to purveyors in South King County, the remaining balance will be distributed according to the following procedure:

 * Net revenues will be contributed by the Bank to offset portions of the obligations of the Snohomish County members and King County members to the Central Puget Sound Forum. Two-thirds of any net revenue will be paid to the Central Puget Sound Forum as a credit against the Snohomish County obligation; one-third of any net revenue will be paid to the Central Puget Sound Forum as credit against the King County obligation.

 Contingent Reimbursement for Costs of Lost Power Generation

 If a "Mutual Aid Agreement" is executed on or before September 30, 2001, committing Snohomish County PUD to provide additional water for supply through the Everett Water System to King County water utilities under certain emergency conditions, net revenues under this Agreement will be dedicated first to reimburse Snohomish County PUD for incremental costs associated with lost power generation at the Jackson Hydroelectric Facility as a result of water supplied by Edmonds to Olympic View WSD.

 The contingent "lost power reimbursements" will be calculated and aggregated on a daily basis according to the following formula:

 Daily Lost Power Charge =- (1.328) * (DOW Index for that day) * (# of MG delivered on that day).

 For example, if on Day #1, the water delivered is 1 MG, and DOW = $325/MWH;

 Day #1 lost power charge = 1.328 X $325 X 1 = $431.60/day.

 Such reimbursements will be made for any water supplied to Olympic View by Edmonds during the term of this Agreement, provided that in no instance will the total reimbursements exceed the amount of net revenue, as defined above.

 A "Mutual Aid Agreement" triggering this net revenue allocation must have the following features:

 * Specific alternative supplies must have been exhausted first;

 * Up to 3 MGD of incremental water supply originating in Spada Reservoir would be guaranteed for at least one month of the term of this Agreement, provided the preceding condition was met;

 * Payment provisions will be substantially similar to those contained in this Agreement; and

 * There will be comparable commitments for emergency water supplies to flow in either direction between King and Snohomish Counties, should the emergency conditions and needs warrant it. Exhibit B

 SNO-KING BORDER DROUGHT RESPONSE TEAM INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL AID FOR EMERGENCY WATER SUPPLY IN 2001

 THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into by and between the AGENCIES listed below, all municipal corporations of the State of Washington, hereinafter referred to as "Parties." The following will be parties to this Agreement if they are signatories hereto:

 Snohomish County Parties include the Cities of Everett, and Mountlake Terrace; Alderwood Water and Wastewater District (AWWD),and Public Utility District No.1 of Snohomish County (SnoPUD).

 King County Parties include the Cities of Bothell and Seattle, Shoreline Water District (SWD), and Northshore Utility District (NUD).

 WHEREAS, the governor declared a drought emergency in mid-March and on April 25, 2001 sent a letter to some of the Parties requesting that "Puget Sound water suppliers work cooperatively over the summer and fall to meet the needs of residential and business customers, as well as help safeguard essential stream flows for fish populations." and

 WHEREAS, all Parties own and operate water distribution systems in Snohomish or King County, Washington, and distribute said water on a wholesale or retail basis within their service area; and

 WHEREAS, the Snohomish County Parties currently wish to provide available emergency water to the King County Parties in order to help alleviate water-shortages and provide water for fish flows if there are not any feasible alternatives by supplying Everett water to areas that are normally supplied with Seattle water; and

 WHEREAS, at some future date, the King County Parties may be asked to provide available emergency water to Snohomish County Parties in order to help alleviate water shortages; and

 WHEREAS, Everett and SnoPUD own and operate a water supply and hydroelectric system located in the Sultan Basin of Snohomish County, Washington. Said system currently has regional supply capability for Everett's present customers as well as 5 MGD for emergency purposes during 2001 for customers outside of its present served area if alternate power supply is available and mandatory energy conservation is not being required of SnoPUD customers; and

 WHEREAS, SnoPUD is a party of interest with regard to any water service outside of the Snohomish County service area described in the Everett/SnoPUD Amended Agreement for Multipurpose Development of the Sultan River; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to RCW 35.92.170, RCW 35.92.200 and RCW 39.94, Everett is authorized to enter into contracts with other municipalities to supply said municipalities with water; and

 WHEREAS, all costs related to the availability and/or delivery of water and lost power value to the SnoPUD under this Agreement shall be recovered from the sale of such service;

 NOW, THEREFORE, for the mutual benefits to be derived, the parties agree as follows:

 1. Delivery of Water.

 A. If the King County area has no feasible alternatives as mutually determined by Everett, SnoPUD and Seattle, Seattle may make a request for water for a specified amount and number of days.

 B. If approved by Everett and SnoPUD, Everett hereby agrees to deliver the approved amount of emergency water to AWWD for delivery to water distributors in the King County area. Within the limitations of its system, AWWD will supply specified amounts of emergency water by mutual agreement with each of the following parties: Mountlake Terrace, NUD, and Bothell.

 C. Within the limitations of its system, Mountlake Terrace will supply specified amounts of emergency water by mutual agreement with SWD.

 2. Point of Delivery. Everett shall deliver water to AWWD at Everett Reservoir No. 3. AWWD shall deliver water to its existing customers at existing points of delivery. Other points of delivery shall be those shown in Attachment No. 1.

 3. Quantity of Water. The maximum peak day amount of emergency water delivered under this agreement, and any other agreements to related to areas normally supplied by Seattle, shall not exceed 5 MGD. Everett shall not be responsible for storage except as it relates to Everett's existing storage at Chaplain Reservoir and Reservoir No. 3. All parties supplying emergency water under this agreement, agree to use best efforts, subject to meeting the requirements of all existing direct and indirect customers, to provide regular and uninterrupted supply of emergency water at said points of delivery in Attachment No. 1 and not to exceed the corresponding amounts in this attachment. Nothing herein shall be construed as obligating any party to take or purchase any minimum quantity of water from any other party.

 4. Quality of Water. Everett and its wholesale (direct and indirect) customers agree that all water delivered to "receiving" Parties at the point(s) of delivery shall be of the same standard and quality as that normally delivered by the "supplying" Parties to its existing customers. Supplying Parties shall be responsible for meeting state and federal standards for safe, high-quality drinking water at the point of delivery. All water supplied for use or sale by "receiving" Parties shall be delivered upon the express condition that after it has passed the point of delivery the same becomes the property of the "receiving" Party, and the "supplying" Party shall not be liable for any damages or loss resulting from degradation of water quality which may occur beyond said point. "Supplying"parties shall not be responsible for changes in water quality or operating problems which may result from mixing of different sources of water in the "receiving" parties' system or in systems served by same. Seattle will do any water quality testing required of by their current customers.

 5. Rates and Charges.

 A. Rates for water delivered shall be those already established by contract, ordinance or resolution of the Parties plus any "wheeling charges" and "additional emergency water charges" required to recover costs incurred as a direct result of the delivery of any water under this Agreement that are not covered by existing rates.

 B. Everett and AWWD will not apply a demand charge on any additional emergency water delivered under this agreement.

 C. If a party does not have an existing wholesale rate, they may apply a "wheeling" charge to any water supplied under this Agreement. A "wheeling" charge would cover the allocated expense associated with delivering emergency water under this agreement from any location in a party's water system to the water supply point or intertie with another party and would be added to what the supplying party originally paid for the water.

 D. "Additional emergency water charges" may include the following: a) capital costs (See Attachment #1 & #2), b) labor and related benefits, c) cost of power, and d) cost of replacement power. "Additional emergency water charges" would NOT include costs, which are already included within existing rates such as, debt service, depreciation, stranded costs, general mark-up percentage, or wear and tear on facilities.

 E. Seattle agrees to pay SnoPUD a "lost power charge" to reflect the cost of replacement power calculated according to the following formula :

 Daily of Lost Power Charge = 1.328 X DOW Index for that day X # of MG delivered on that day.

 For example, if on day #1, the water delivered is 5 MG; DOW = $325/MWH; Day #1 lost power charge = 1.328 X $325 X 5 = $2158/day.

 6. Billing and Payment.

 A. All billings for emergency water delivered under this agreement shall be submitted to Seattle. The City of Seattle will serve as the "banker" for purposes of this Agreement. As such, those parties in Snohomish County delivering water to Seattle's present customers will bill Seattle for that water except for CVWD, which would work with WWD to bill WWD's present customers in Snohomish County to be supplied by CVWD.

 B. In addition, Seattle will be billed for other charges as specified in Section 5. To the extent possible, the "bank" shall be operated to be "revenue-neutral." Should there be any excess revenue, this will be distributed based upon the shares defined in Attachment No. 2.

 C. The "bank" shall be "transparent" in that all billings, charges, and revenue information shall be made available to all Parties.

 D. On a monthly basis, Parties shall bill Seattle for any emergency water charges related to water made available and/or delivered hereunder. Said bills shall be payable within sixty (60) days after receipt of the invoice. Delinquent bills shall accrue interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum for any delinquency greater than ninety (90) days.

 E. SnoPUD shall bill Seattle for its lost power charge on a monthly basis. Said bills shall be payable as stated above.

 F. Seattle shall bill its existing wholesale customers for all water delivered to these customers as if Seattle had delivered the water through the receiving parties customary meter.

 7. Period of Water Delivery. It is the intent of this Agreement to deliver water for the duration of the state drought emergency or while there are drought-related problems in King County, but no later than December 31, 2001 and this is the end of the expected delivery of water under this Agreement.

 8. Term of Agreement and Effective Date. The term of this Agreement shall be from the date of its mutual acceptance by the parties until December 31, 2001. The initial effective date of this Agreement shall be the date that the following Parties have all signed: Everett, SnoPUD, AWWD, Seattle, and at least one party that can receive water from AWWD or one of its wholesale customers. Thereafter, the effective date for the party becomes their date of signing.

 9. Continuity of Service.

 A. Continuity of service shall be maintained by Everett and supplying Parties, in a similar manner as service to these Parties' businesses, residences and wholesale customers to the extent feasible, subject to water being available in addition to existing customer demands. In the event of a general emergency or water shortage affecting the Everett Water Supply System, or other Parties' water systems, requiring restrictions on the delivery of water, general restrictions placed upon deliveries to "receiving" Parties shall be determined based on availability of water. In the event of localized emergency problems, temporary service interruptions may result.

 B. According to Everett's Drought Response Plan, once conditions cause it to go to a Stage 3-Mandatory level, water sales outside of Everett's normal served area may be reduced to zero.

 C. Supplying Parties shall provide oral notice to "receiving' Parties, and may temporarily interrupt or reduce deliveries of water to any Party, if the supplier determines that such interruption or reduction is necessary or reasonable in case of system emergencies or in order to install equipment, make repairs, replacements, investigations and inspections or perform other maintenance work on the suppliers' water system or those parts of the system supplying Parties. Except in cases of emergency, and in order that Parties' operations will not be unreasonably interfered with, suppliers shall give Parties reasonable written notice of any such interruption or reduction, the reason therefore, and the probable duration thereof.

 10. Indemnity.

 A. Nothing herein shall be interpreted to create indemnity or cross indemnity agreements between the parties. In the event of claim, loss or liability alleged to have arisen out of the ownership or operation of any Parties' water supply system, the parties agree that their liability shall be borne in accordance with and as determined under Washington State Law.

 B. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no party shall be liable under or pursuant to this Agreement for indirect, incidental, special, exemplary or consequential damages, including but not limited to damages for lost profits or benefits, even if such party has been advised of the possibility or existence of such damages.

 11. Uncontrollable Forces or State or Federal Law Changes. No party hereto shall be considered to be in default in respect to any obligations hereunder if prevented from fulfilling such obligations by reason of uncontrollable forces or material changes in state or federal law or enforcement thereof. Parties rendered unable to fulfill any obligation hereunder by reason of an uncontrollable force or material change in state or federal law shall exercise due diligence to deal with such uncontrollable force with all reasonable dispatch and to take actions consistent with the purpose of this agreement.

 12. Existing Contracts. This agreement does not change or amend the existing contracts between any of the Parties.

 13. Notice. Formal notice and official communications between the parties regarding this Agreement shall be sent by first class mail to the addresses in Attachment No. 3.

 14. Relationship of the Parties. This Agreement describes the entire relationship of the parties with regard to the subject matter herein concerned. Except as maybe explicitly provided otherwise herein, the parties are independent agencies and shall not be deemed to be partners, joint ventures, principals, or agents of each other for any purpose whatsoever. Each party shall have and maintain sole and complete control over all of its employees, agents, and operations. Except as may otherwise be explicitly provided herein, or in separate agreement, each and all of the obligations, responsibilities, and liabilities of the parties under and in connection with this Agreement are several, and not joint, and no separate legal or administrative entity will be created to fulfill the purposes of this Agreement.

 15. Dispute Resolution. Any dispute under or in connection with this Agreement may, upon the mutual agreement of the parties, be submitted for resolution by mediation or binding arbitration. Disputes not resolved in such manner shall be resolved in Superior Court for Snohomish County, Washington..

 16. Miscellaneous.

 A. Integration Clause.

 This Agreement, together with Attachments , sets forth the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement. The rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall be subject to and governed by this Agreement. The headings used herein are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

 B. No Third Party Beneficiaries

 Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, none of the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of or be enforceable by any third party.

 C. Waivers

 Except as otherwise provided herein or as agreed by the parities, no provision of this Agreement may be waived except as documented or confirmed in writing. Any waiver at any time by a party of its right with respect to a default under this Agreement, or with respect to any other matter arising in connection therewith, shall not be deemed a waiver with respect to any subsequent default or matter. Any party may waive any notice or agree to accept a shorter notice than specified in this Agreement. Such waiver of notice or acceptance of shorter notice by a party at any time regarding a notice shall not be considered a waiver with respect to any subsequent notice required under this Agreement.

 D. Invalid Provision

 The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the other provisions hereof, and this Agreement shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or unenforceable provisions were omitted.

 E. Amendment

 No change, amendment or modification of any provision of this Agreement shall be valid unless set forth in a written amendment to this Agreement signed by all parties.

 F. Assignment and Subcontracts; Binding Agreement

 No party may assign this Agreement, or assign or subcontract all or any part of such party's rights or obligations under this Agreement, without the prior written consent of the other parties, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Without in any way limiting the foregoing, this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.

 G. Further Assurances

 Each party hereto covenants and agrees to do all things necessary or advisable, including but not limited to the preparation, execution, delivery and recording of any instruments or agreements, in order to confirm and better assure the intent and purposes of this Agreement.

 H. Counterparts

 This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

 I. Signature Clause

 Each of the undersigned signatories represents and warrants that he or she has all necessary and proper authorization to execute and deliver this Agreement on behalf of the party on behalf of which he or she is signing.

 J. Governing law; Venue

 This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The parties (i) agree that any lawsuit or judicial action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement must be heard in the Superior Court of the State of Washington in and for Snohomish County; (ii) waive any objection to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding; and (iii) irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of any such court in any such suit, action or proceeding between the parties.

 K. Rule of Construction

 No provision of the Agreement shall be construed in favor of or against any of the parties hereto by reason of the extent to which any such party or its counsel participated in the drafting thereof or by reason of the extent to which such provision or any other provision or provisions of this Agreement is or are inconsistent with any prior draft thereof.

 L. Attachments

 All attachments referenced in this agreement are hereby incorporated by reference into this agreement.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their proper Officers on the date of their signing.

 CITY OF EVERETT _____________________________ Edward D. Hansen, Mayor Date

 ALDERWOOD WATER & WASTEWATER PUD No.1 of SNOHOMISH COUNTY DISTRICT ________________________________ ____________________________ Paul D. McIntyre, President Date Cynthia First, President Date

 CITY OF MOUNTLAKE TERRACE _____________________________________ Connie L. Fessler, City Manager Date

 CITY OF BOTHELL ____________________________________ James Thompson, City Manager Date

 NORTHSHORE UTILITY DISTRICT ____________________________________ Don Ellis, President Date

 SHORELINE WATER DISTRICT SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITIES ___________________________________ _________________________ Bob Chute, President Date Diana Gale, Director Date

 A:\Exhibit B.doc ATTACHMENT 1 TO EXHIBIT B: SNOHOMISH/KING COUNTY BORDER: EMERGENCY WATER INTERTIES AS OF 7/10/01

 P* = Probability of Implementation: H = High/ Easy; M = Medium/Minor Work; L = Low/ Some Difficulties

 APPROX OPERABLE # P* FROM TO WHOM? LOCATION DIA CAPACITY TODAY? WRITTEN FOOT- WHOM? (gpm) AGMT.? NOTES

 1. H Edmonds Olympic View W.D. 76th Ave. W & 224th 6" 700 YES NO A $5K for SW PSV

 2A. LL OVWD Shoreline(Seattle) NW 205th & 8th NW 6" YES YES $0

 2B. LL OVWD Shoreline(Seattle) NW 205th & Fremont 10" YES YES $0

 3A. L Mountlake Shoreline W.D. 56th Ave W & 244th 10" 1000 YES YES B- Terrace SW $20-25K

 3B. L Mountlake Shoreline W.D. 59th Ave W & 244th 10" 1000 YES YES B-See Terrace SW above

 4. L Alderwood W.D. Northshore U.D. Brier Rd & 244th (8") 300 NO NO D-$80K Need 300' of WM. Design Done Online 8/1 (NUD)

 5. L Alderwood W.D. Northshore U.D. Lockwood & Carter 8" 200 YES NO $ 0

 6. L Alderwood W.D. Bothell 24021 23rd Ave. SE 8" 300 YES YES, for Needs a intended for Emergency meter fire flow use $6-10K only

 7. L Alderwood W.D. Bothell 35th Ave S.E. & 8" 500 w/PRV- NO NO Need 50' 240th $25-35K

 8. L Alderwood W.D. Cross Valley W.D. Hwy 9 & 228th 8"w/ a 300- Max- YES YES C-#10 3" Limited by backup meter agreement $0

 9. LL Cross Valley Woodinville W.D. East of 24305 @ SR 8" 500+/- YES NO C-$0 9

 10. H CVWD WWD customers in 24305 @ SR 9 NA 100+/- YES YES $0 Snohomish County

 Footnotes:

 A. The AWD/Edmonds Master Meter needs to be upsized to prevent unacceptable customer pressure drops but this can't be done for summer 2001.

 B. This intertie is for emergency needs not to supplement existing supply to meet day to day demand. It may result in low service pressures and excessive flow velocities. Pressure control devices control flow rate which will be limited to 1000 gpm total for both 3A & 3B

 C. Potential water quality mixing problems with surface and ground water. CVWD doesn't plan to use #9. #8 would be used only if needed by CVWD to augment its groundwater sources

 .D. To be installed at NUD expense

 E. #6 and #7 capital reimbursement cap is $30K.

 .NOTE: Total Capacity of H and M Probability interties is 800+/- gpm or 1.2 MGD with 700gpm or 1.0 MGD coming from AWD.The total capital cost to the project is $55-75K.

 L:\LEGIS\COUNCIL\BILLS\113777b1.docLM4/26/01)

 ATTACHMENT 2 TO EXHIBIT B

 Chargeable Participant Costs and Operation of the "Bank"

 A. Receipt of Payments

 1. Initial Payments

 The Bank will be operated by Seattle Public Utilities. It will receive all up-front payments by utilities who contract for the right to Emergency Water deliveries in 2001 pursuant to the Snohomish-King County ILA.

 The Seattle Public Utilities will be responsible for arranging for a contractual agreement with utilities in South King County under which those utilities will provide payment for costs associated with establishing reliable supply connections between Snohomish County utilities not served by the Seattle water supply system and purveyors served by the Seattle water supply system.

 2. Payments for Delivered Water

 The Bank will bill and receive payments for all water delivered to the utilities who contract for Emergency Water supplies in 2001 from the Seattle system pursuant to the Snohomish-King County ILA.

 The Seattle Public Utilities will be responsible for arranging for a contractual agreement with utilities in South King County, which will define those utilities' per unit rates for water delivered from Snohomish County and from the Seattle water supply system.

 B. Disbursement for Chargeable Costs

 1. Initial Capital and Start-Up Costs

 a. The Bank will reimburse participant utilities in the Snohomish- King County ILA for initial capital costs defined in the tables below.

 Party Capital Item Cost [1] Olympic View WSD PSV Valve $5,000 City of Bothell Meter, Pipe Connection $30,000 Shoreline WD Hydraulic Study $10,000 Shoreline WD Piping @ intertie $15,000

 [1] Capital costs shown are upper limits. The Bank will reimburse actual costs of these projects, up to the limit shown.

 b. The Bank will reimburse participant utilities in the Snohomish- King County ILA for other start-up costs defined in the tables below.

 Party Start-Up Costs Cost [1] City of Everett Organization O/H $0 Alderwood WWD Organization O/H $0 Mountlake Terrace Organization O/H $0 Bothell Organization O/H $0 Northshore U.D. Organization O/H; $0 Shoreline W.D. Organization O/H $0 Snohomish PUD Organization O/H $0 Seattle Public Utilities Organization O/H $0 Seattle Public Utilities Economic Consultant $25,000 Seattle Public Utilities Engineering Consultant $15,000

 [1] Overhead and Consultant costs shown are upper limits. The Bank will reimburse actual costs of these projects, up to the limit shown.

 These reimbursements for initial capital and other start-up costs will be made by Seattle independent of the size or timing of payments received by the Bank.

 2. Per Unit Payments for Delivered Water

 The Bank will remit payments to participating utilities in the Snohomish-King county ILA for all water delivered to South King County water utilities that result from transfers from participating utilities to this Agreement. Those payments will include the following items:

 a. For water delivered as a result of Mountlake Terrace supplies to the Shoreline Water District:

 Receiving Party Reimbursed Service Rate/ccf City of Everett Wholesale water sales $0.5324/ccf Alderwood Water District Wheeling water $0.1694/ccf Mountlake Terrace [1] Wheeling water $0.1050/ccf

 [1] The City of Mountlake Terrace wheeling charge is 15% of the cost of wholesale water delivered to the City by Alderwood Water District.

 b. The Bank will also reimburse parties for "additional emergency water charges," based on 1) documented labor costs, with related benefits, for operating activities associated with the water transfers, and 2) power costs associated with increased pumping requirements to provide the water transfers, to the extent those costs are not recovered by the per unit payments in the tables in 2.a. and 2.b. above.

 c. The bank will reimburse SnoPUD a lost power charge according to the formula in Section 5 of the Agreement.

 C. Disbursement of Net Revenues from ILA Operations

 1. Initial Revenues and Expenses

 The Bank will receive all initial payments from utilities contracting for access to the Emergency Water defined in this Agreement, and will pay all initial costs defined above to the parties to this Agreement.

 2. Ongoing Revenues and Expenses

 The Bank will receive all payments for water delivered under this Agreement, and will pay all billed costs described above, independent of the size and timing of payments received for water delivered.

 In addition, the Bank will pay all billed costs for wheeling such water deliveries from the Seattle water supply system to the receiving water utilities, according to the terms of separate agreements among the Seattle SPU, the receiving water utilities, and any purveyors who agree to wheel Emergency Water across their systems to the receiving utilities.

 3. Net Revenues

 If the payment obligations for the sum of initial expenses and delivered water sales exceed the revenues from initial payments from South King County utilities and Emergency Water Sales to those utilities, the Seattle Public Utilities agrees to pay the Bank the amount necessary to discharge those payment obligations.

 If the revenues from initial payments from South King County utilities and Emergency Water Sales exceed the itemized payment obligations defined above, including any wheeling payments to purveyors in South King County, the remaining balance will be distributed according to the following procedure:

 * Net revenues will be contributed by the Bank to offset portions of the obligations of the Snohomish County members and King County members to the Central Puget Sound Forum. Two-thirds of any net revenue will be paid to the Central Puget Sound Forum as a credit against the Snohomish County obligation; one-third of any net revenue will be paid to the Central Puget Sound Forum as credit against the King County obligation. EXHIBIT C

 MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT FOR EMERGENCY WATER SUPPLY TO THE CITY OF KENT IN 2001

 1. Delivery of Water.

 A. Seattle hereby agrees to deliver the approved amount of emergency water to Highline WD or Soos Creek WD for delivery to the City of Kent.

 B. Within the limitations of their systems, Highline WD and Soos Creek WD will supply specified amounts of emergency water.

 2. Points of Delivery. Seattle shall deliver water via its purveyors to Kent, at two points. It will deliver up to 1.75 MGD through Intertie #11 between Highline WD and Kent, as shown on Attachment No. 1. It will deliver up to 0.75 MGD through Soos Creek WD and Kent at Intertie #4, as shown on Attachment No. 1, contingent on the completion of facilities necessary to activate Intertie #4 under a separate agreement between Kent and Soos Creek WD.

 3. Quantity of Water. The maximum peak day amount of emergency water delivered under this Agreement shall not exceed 2.5 MGD.

 Seattle agrees to use best efforts, subject to meeting the requirements of all Seattle existing direct and indirect customers, to provide regular and uninterrupted supply of emergency water at said points of delivery. Highline WD and Soos Creek WD agree to use best efforts, subject to meeting the requirements of all Highline WD's and Soos Creek WD's existing customers, to transmit additional regular and uninterrupted supplies of emergency water to those points of delivery in Attachment No. 1 and not to exceed the corresponding amounts in this attachment. Nothing herein shall be construed as obligating any Party to take or purchase any minimum quantity of water from any other Party.

 4. Quality of Water. Seattle and its wholesale customers agree that all water delivered to Kent shall meet state and federal standards for safe, high-quality drinking water. All water supplied for use by Kent shall be delivered upon the express condition that after it has passed the point of delivery the same becomes the property of the Kent, and Seattle shall not be liable for any damages or loss resulting from degradation of water quality which may occur beyond said point. Seattle shall not be responsible for changes in water quality or operating problems which may result from mixing of different sources of water in Kent's system. Seattle will do any water quality testing required by its current customers.

 5. Rates and Charges.

 A. Rates for water delivered to Kent shall be the "New Water" rates already established by contract and ordinance and are listed in Table 1 below. These charges include all costs for wheeling to points of delivery to the Kent system, purchase of water supply from areas outside the Seattle system and capital costs incurred in order to affect the transfer of water to the Kent system.

 Time frame Rate/ccf August 1 - Sept 15 $1.80 Sept 16 - Dec 31 $1.40

 B. HIGHLINE WD and Soos Creek WD may assess wheeling charges for the delivery of water under this Agreement. Those charges are including in the rates listed above and will be paid to those utilities by Seattle.

 C. Neither Seattle, Highline WD nor Soos Creek WD will apply demand charges on any emergency water delivered under this Agreement.

 6. Billing and Payment

 Seattle will act as the "Banker" for the collection and disbursement of funds related to the transfer of water provided to Kent. As the Banker, Seattle will be responsible for reimbursing utilities in the Snohomish-King County Inter Local Agreement for initial capital and other start-up costs necessary for the purchase of water in addition to the wheeling charges associated with delivery of water to Kent from Highline or Soos Creek. These reimbursements will be made independent of the size or timing of actual water deliveries under this Agreement.

 A. All payments and billings for emergency water delivered under this Agreement shall be submitted to Seattle. Seattle will serve as the "banker" for purposes of this Agreement, according to the procedures described in Attachment 2. As such, Highline WD and Soos Creek WD will bill Seattle directly for wheeling that water.

 B. Seattle will be responsible for payment of all other charges associated with securing the supply of water under this Agreement.

 C. The Bank shall be "transparent" in that all billings, charges and revenue information shall be made available to all Parties.

 D. On a monthly basis, Parties shall remit payment or bill Seattle for any emergency water sales or wheeling charges related to water made available and/or delivered hereunder. Said invoices and bills shall be payable within sixty (60) days after receipt. Delinquent bills shall accrue interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum for any delinquency greater than ninety (90) days.

 7. Period of Water Delivery. It is the intent of this Agreement to deliver water for the duration of the state drought emergency or while there are drought-related problems in King County, whichever ends first. This is estimated to be on December 31, 2001 and this is the end of the expected delivery of water under this Agreement.

 After December 31, 2001, Seattle, Kent, and at least one of Highline WD or Soos Creek WD, would have to agree to continue with water delivery to Kent according to this Agreement.

 8. Term of Agreement and Effective Date. The term of this Agreement shall be from the date of its mutual acceptance by the Parties until December 31, 2001. The initial effective date of this Agreement shall be the date that the following Parties have all signed. Seattle, Kent, and either Highline WD or Soos Creek WD. Thereafter, the effective date for a Party becomes their date of signing.

 9. Renewal. Parties shall have a right to renew this Agreement for an extended term, subject to reasonable modification of the terms hereof.

 10. Continuity of Service.

 A. Continuity of service shall be maintained by Seattle and supplying Parties, in a similar manner as service to these Parties' businesses, residences and wholesale customers to the extent feasible, subject to water being available in addition to existing customer demands. In the event of a general emergency or water shortage affecting the Seattle Water Supply System, or other Parties' water systems, requiring restrictions on the delivery of water, general restrictions placed upon deliveries to Kent shall be determined by a similar method to that used for restricting deliveries to existing customers. In the event of localized emergency problems, temporary service interruptions may result.

 B. According to Seattle's Drought Response Plan, once conditions cause it to go to a Stage 3-Mandatory level, water sales outside of Seattle's normal service area may be limited to as low as zero.

 Supplying Parties shall provide oral notice to Kent, and may temporarily interrupt or reduce deliveries of water to any Party, if the supplier determines that such interruption or reduction is necessary or reasonable in case of system emergencies or in order to install equipment, make repairs, replacements, investigations and inspections of perform other maintenance work on the suppliers' water system or those parts of the system supplying Parties. Except in cases of emergency, and in order that Parties' operations will not be unreasonably interfered with, suppliers shall give Kent reasonable written notice of any such interruptions or reduction, the reason therefore, and the probable duration thereof. EXHIBIT D

 CITY OF KENT and SOOS CREEK WATER AND SEWER DISTRICT EMERGENCY USE INTER-TIE AGREEMENT

 THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this ___ day of ________________, 2001, by and between the CITY OF KENT, a Washington municipal corporation (hereinafter referred to as "the City"), SOOS CREEK WATER AND SEWER DISTRICT, a Washington municipal corporation (hereinafter referred to as "the District"), and the CITY OF SEATTLE (hereinafter referred to as SPU), all entities being duly organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Washington, is entered into for the purposes of planning, designing, constructing , maintaining and operating an emergency system inter-tie between the respective parties.

 WITNESSETH:

 WHEREAS, both the City and the District are public agencies authorized by law and qualified to provide domestic public water in accordance with federal, state and local laws and regulations; and

 WHEREAS, emergency use inter-ties between public water agencies can assist them in performing their water supply duties during times of emergency and water shortage; and

 WHEREAS, implementation of emergency intertie agreements between SPU purveyor and non-purveyor customers that involve SPU water supply are allowed subject to SPU approval; and

 WHEREAS, it is in the public interest for the parties herein to establish an emergency use inter-tie to provide backup water supply in the event of an emergency, as defined herein.

 NOW, THEREFORE:

 IT IS HEREBY AGREED by and between the parties hereto as follows:

 1. The inter-tie is intended to operate as a one way gravity flow from the District's system into the City's system, by an inter-tie facility to be located within a vault suitable for the purpose. The facilities for this purpose are schematically shown on Attachment 1 to this document. Final location and configuration of the facilities will be determined at the time of final design.

 2. The District will act as the lead agency, and will be the design and contracting entity for the construction of the facilities contemplated hereby.

 3. Upon completion of construction, the District and the City will own and operate the facilities respectively indicated on Attachment 1 to this agreement. The District will convey those facilities to be owned and operated by Kent by Bill of Sale.

 4. The City shall reimburse the District for all actual costs associated with the planning, design, construction and permitting for this project. All reasonable efforts have been made to develop cost projections for this project. The estimated total project cost is $85,000.

 5. The City and the District will each have access to the vault via dual padlocks or ownership of keys to the vault.

 6. The City will be provided a key to the vault's lock. Only the District will unlock and operate the vault, except as otherwise provided herein.

 7. The inter-tie will be operated only in the event of an emergency. For purposes of this agreement, an emergency is defined to be as a infrastructure failure, contamination of water supply fire flow demand failure, electrical supply failure, or drought condition as defined by the State Department of Ecology such that the City's water supply is unable to provide sufficient water supply to its inhabitants.

 8. It is anticipated that the inter-tie will be capable of transporting approximately 500-750 gpm. Both parties recognize that the District's water system's ability to sustain this flow rate is limited by District physical system characteristics. The District may reduce the rate of flow for any period necessary to ensure that the inter-tie does not adversely impact its system operation.

 9. The procedures for operating the inter-tie in the event of an emergency shall be as follows:

 a. The City will make the determination that an emergency exists which warrants a request that the inter-tie be activated.

 b. The City's Water Superintendent or designee shall provide a verbal request to the District Manager or designee and Seattle Public Utilities (SPU). Upon the District's and SPU's concurrence that such an emergency exists, the inter-tie will be activated in one of the two following manners:

 i. If the emergency is one that does not require immediate water by the City, the District will open the inter-tie at 9:00 a.m. on the first business day following the determination of the emergency. The City's personnel shall also be on site for operation of the City's facilities. At the time of activation, District and City personnel shall concurrently confirm and note the standing reading on the flow meter totalizer of the inter-tie.

 ii. In the even of an emergency which requires immediate use of the inter-tie, the City shall verbally notify the District that the inter-tie's activation is required as soon as reasonably possible. If the District is unable to respond within thirty minutes of such verbal notification, the City's personnel will be permitted to unlock and activate the inter-tie valve, and to verify and to note the standing reading on the flow meter totalizer of the inter-tie.

 c. The City will provide the District with a written request confirmation not less than 24 hours after any verbal request, or during the first day of normal business after the verbal request, whichever is later. If the City requests that the inter-tie be activated prior to 9:00 a.m. on the first business day following the determination of an emergency, the City will provide backup data as necessary to allow the District to request a waiver of demand metering charges from SPU for the particular event, in accordance with the wholesale water contract between the District and SPU. If demand metering charges are not waived by SPU, the City shall pay such charges incurred by the District relative to the event.

 d. The District shall notify SPU in writing within 10 days after the use of the emergency inter-tie. This notification will include a description of the nature of the emergency, and the date, time and quantity of water used during the activation of the inter-tie.

 e. The inter-tie shall remain activated until the City has determined that the emergency causing need for the activation has ceased, but in no event for longer than two weeks unless mutually agreed to in writing by the District and SPU. The District shall close the inter-tie at the time of such determination, or at 9:00 a.m. on the following day. The City shall provide a written confirmation of its request that the inter-tie be closed.

 f. The District shall read the meter, and calculate and invoice the City for the water used during each activation of the inter-tie as follows:

 i. The District shall prepare an invoice by multiplying the number of ccf's (hundred cubic feet) of water used by either the new water wholesale rate or the demand metering charge the District is required to pay to SPU for the event, whichever is greater, plus the amount per ccf established the District's Board of Commissioners as the District's wheeling charge. For calendar year 2001, the wheeling charge shall be $20 per ccf. Payment of invoices calculated in accordance herewith shall constitute complete payment for the water, labor, and activation of the inter- tie, and its administration while activated or while pending activation.

 ii. The City shall pay each invoice in full within thirty days of its issue. After 60 days, a late charge of 10% of the amount due shall be added, and thereafter the entire balance due shall bear interest at 12% per annum, until paid in full.

 10. The implementation of this agreement is contingent upon receipt of the written approval of SPU; and it shall be subject to any amendments made to the District's wholesale water contract with SPU during the term hereof.

 12. The inter-tie project is subject to approval by the Washington State Department of Health. The District will submit plans and specifications to the Department for review and approval concurrently with the project's construction. The City will pay the review fees directly to the Department. Any changes to the project required by the Department will be made by the District. Both parties recognize that these changes may result in additional costs to the City.

 13. Each party hereto agrees to protect, defend and indemnify the other party, its officers, officials, employees and agents from any and all costs, claims, judgments and/or awards of damages, arising out of or in any way resulting from the party's default, failure of performance, or negligent conduct associated with this agreement, by the party, its employees, subcontractors or agents. Each party agrees that its obligations under this provision extend to any claim, demand, and/or cause of action brought by or on behalf of any of its employees, or agents. The foregoing indemnity is specifically and expressly intended to constitute a waiver of each party's immunity under Washington's industrial insurance act, RCW Title 51, as respects the other party only, and only to the extent necessary to provide each party with a full and complete indemnity of claims made by the other party's employees. The parties acknowledge that these provisions were specifically negotiated and  agreed upon by them.

 14. The City agrees to protect, defend and indemnify the District, its officers, officials, employees and agents from any and all costs, claims, judgments and/or awards of damages, arising out of or in any way related to pressure changes within the City's service area attributable to the activation and use of the inter-tie.

 15. This agreement shall continue in effect until mutually cancelled by the parties.

 16. Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, this agreement is not intended to preclude, conflict with, or otherwise affect the terms of existing or future agreements executed between SPU and the City that may involve use of the inter-tie described herein.

 SOOS CREEK WATER

 THE CITY OF KENT AND SEWER DISTRICT _____________________________ ____________________________ _____________________________ ____________________________ Date: Date:

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 _____________________________ _____________________________ Date:

```
