

********

**Council Bill Number: 113750**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120448**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use; amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Section 22.900C, Fees for Land Use and Zoning Review; Section 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; and Section 22.900E, Fees for Certificates and Registrations.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 23, 2001
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 27, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 27, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 9, 2001
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget and Economic Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-DESIGN-CONSTRUCTION-AND-LAND-USE, FEES, PERMITS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use; amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Section 22.900C, Fees for Land Use and Zoning Review; Section 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; and Section 22.900E, Fees for Certificates and Registrations.

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section Section 22.900A.050, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119766, is further amended as follows:

 22.900A.050 Transition.

A. Land Use and Environmentally Critically Areas Fees. Minimum land use review fees for applications requiring a land use or environmentally critical areas review shall be charged according to the permit fee legislation in effect when the application was received by the Department. Hourly fees shall be charged according to the legislation in effect when the review is performed.

B. Other Fees. Fees for other applications ~~requiring a building code, mechanical code, land use or environmentally critical areas review~~ shall be set according to the permit fee legislation in effect at the time the application was received by the Department, if one of the following occurs:

~~A~~1. The permit is issued within 12 months of the start of the initial review; or

~~B~~2. If longer than 12 months, the Director determines that there was reasonable and continuous progress on the completion of permit requirements.

 3. If neither ~~Subsection A or B~~Item 1 or 2 occurs, the application shall be subject to the permit fee legislation in effect at the time of issuance.

 4. Exceptions: 1. Fees for drainage, excavation, or shoring applications received prior to January 1, 1995 shall be subject to the permit fee legislation in effect on the date the fee is paid.

 5. Site review fees for ~~permits~~applications received prior to January 1, 2000 shall be subject to the permit fee legislation in effect on the date the application was received.

~~3. Fees for land use review of master use permits which were received prior to January 1, 2000 and which were not associated with development permits, shall be subject to the permit fee legislation in effect on the date the application was received.~~

 Section Section 22.900C.010, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119766, is further amended as follows:

 22.900C.010 Land use fees.

 A. Land Use Review Fees. The land use review fee for Master Use Permits, Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, Environmentally Critical Area approvals and other miscellaneous reviews, research and services shall be charged according to Table C-1 unless otherwise specified.

 B. Types of Land Use Reviews. The fee for applications with one or more Type A components and no Type B components shall be as specified in Table C-1 for Type A land use reviews. The fee for applications with one or more Type B land use review and no Type A component shall be as specified in Table C-1 for Type B land use reviews. The fee for applications with both Type A and Type B components shall be as specified in Table C-1 for Type C reviews.Only one minimum review fee shall be charged.

C. Fee Components of Land Use Review Fees. Land use review fees include a minimum land use review fee and may include an hourly fee as specified in Table C-1. The minimum land use review fee covers administrative costs, public notice costs other than environmental review signs, and the number of review hours specified in Table C-1. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate specified in the Table.

~~1. Minimum Land Use Review Fee.~~~~All Master Use Permit, Hearing Examiner, Council Land Use Actions and Environmentally Critical Area approvals include a minimum review fee as specified in Table C-1 and described below.~~a. Type A Land Use Reviews.

 (1) The minimum land use review fee for Type A land use reviews is $1,520. The minimum land use review fee is applied to administrative and public notice costs (other than the cost of environmental review signs) and the first 20 hours of review associated with the application. In addition to the minimum review fee, an hourly fee shall be charged for all hours in excess of the 20 hours of review included in the minimum land use review fee.

~~(2) When more than one Type A component is included as part of an application (e.g., a variance and an administrative conditional use component), only one minimum review fee shall be charged. The minimum land use review fee, when multiple components are included, is applied to administrative and public notice costs and the first 20 hours of review. In addition to the minimum review fee, a fee shall be charged for all review hours in excess of the 20 hours of review included in the minimum land use review fee.~~b. Type B Land Use Reviews.

 (1) The minimum land use review fee for Type B land use reviews is $2,533. The minimum land use review fee is applied to administrative and public notice costs (other than the cost of environmental review signs) and the first 10 hours of review associated with the application. In addition to the minimum review fee, an hourly fee shall be charged for all hours in excess of the 10 hours of review included in the minimum land use review fee.

~~(2) When more than one Type B component is included as part of an application (e.g., environmental review and short plat components, or lot boundary adjustment and shoreline substantial development components) only one minimum review fee shall be charged, in an amount equal to the greater of the minimum review fees applicable to the land use components included in the application. The minimum land use review fee, when multiple components are included, is applied to administrative and public notice costs and the first 10 hours of review. In addition to the minimum review fee, a fee shall be charged for all hours in excess of the 10 hours of review included in the minimum land use review fee.~~c. Combined Land Use Reviews. The minimum land use review fee for a combined land use review is $3,797. The minimum land use review fee is applied to administrative and public notice costs (other than the cost of environmental review signs) and the first 16 hours of review associated with the application. In addition to the minimum review fee, an hourly fee shall be charged for all hours in excess of the 16 hours of review included in the minimum land use review fee.

 2. Hourly Land Use Fees. For approvals subject to hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, an hourly rate of $175.00 per hour shall be charged for all review hours in excess of the hours included in the minimum land use review fee, unless otherwise specified in Table C-1 below.

 C. Miscellaneous Reviews, Research and Services. The minimum land use review fee and the hourly rate for miscellaneous reviews, research and services are as specified in Table C-1.

 D. Time of payment.

 1. The following fees are due prior to application or provision of service:

 a. Pre-application fee. The fee for land use pre-application conference specified in Table C-1 shall be paid prior to the conference.

 b. Design review fee for Type A land use reviews. One-half the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 ($~~760~~810 shall be paid upon application for the design review pre- design process.

 c. Design review fee ~~that is a component of a combined~~for Type B land use review: One-half the minimum land use review fee specified in ~~paragraph B.1c above~~Table C-1 ($~~1899~~1,316.

 2. The following fees and amounts are due at the time of application or provision of service:

 a. Minimum land use review fee. The minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 shall be paid at application submittal. For projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, the Director may require an additional deposit to be made at application submittal and periodic progress payments to be made during the application review process.

 b. Design review fee for Type A land use reviews. The second half of the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 ($~~760~~810 shall be paid upon application for the Master Use Permit.

 c. Design review fee ~~that is a component of a combined~~for Type B land use review. The second half of the minimum land use review fee specified in ~~paragraph B.1c above~~Table C-1 ($~~1899~~1,316 shall be paid upon application for the Master Use Permit.

 3. The following fees and amounts are due at the times specified below:

 a. All outstanding land use fees shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision or recommendation on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances are due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision or recommendation is required, fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 b. For Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, the fee due to date plus an estimated charge for future work up to and through final Council or Hearing Examiner action shall be paid at the time the recommendation of the Director is available for public review and before it is forwarded for final action. After final Council or Hearing Examiner action, the actual charges and estimated fee paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable upon demand, and prior to issuance of the permit.

 E. Additional Review. In addition to the fees set in Table C-1, review time required on a project prior to, or in lieu of, an application will be charged hourly as determined by the Director.

 F. Correction Penalty Fee. After written notice to the applicant, a penalty fee of $250.00 may be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of response from the applicant.

 G. Environmental Review Signs. When an environmental review sign is required by the Land Use Code (See Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 23.76), a minimum environmental review sign fee of $~~320.00~~370.00 shall be charged for the fabrication, installation and removal of the sign according to Table C-1 unless otherwise specified.

~~MASTER USE PERMIT and ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS APPROVALS~~

~~Land Use Fee For:~~

~~Type of Land Use Review Fee~~

~~Minimum Land Use Review Fee~~

~~Hourly Land Use Fee1~~

~~1.~~

~~Administrative conditional uses (ACUs)~~

~~A~~

~~$1,520~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~2.~~

~~Design review~~

~~A~~

~~$1,520~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~3.~~

~~Environmental reviews (SEPA)2 (including projects with more than one addressed site)~~

~~a. DNSs, mitigated DNSs, other lead agency project review~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~b. DSs and EISs~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour (40-hour deposit)~~

~~c. EIS addenda/SEIS~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour (10-hour deposit)~~

~~d. PEIS latecomers fees~~

~~B~~

~~Reserved~~

~~Reserved~~

~~4.~~

~~Environmental3 review sign~~

~~$((320))~~370

~~None~~

~~5.~~

~~Environmentally critical areas (ECA)~~

~~a. Exemption review~~

~~3/4~~

~~$175~~

~~$175 per hour in excess of 1 hour of review~~

~~b. Exception and wetland alteration exception~~

~~A~~

~~$1,520~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~c. Yard reduction variance~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~d. Buffer reductions and restoration exceptions~~

~~A~~

~~$1,520~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~e. Short plat cluster housing and ACU to recover development potential~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~f. ECA compliance review for development permits~~

~~-~~

~~None~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~6.~~

~~General development plan~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~7.~~

~~Lot boundary adjustment~~

~~3/4~~

~~$1,100~~

~~None~~

~~8.~~

~~Plan shoreline permit~~

~~3/4~~

~~See Council approvals~~

~~See Council approvals~~

~~9.~~

~~Public benefit feature review~~

~~3/4~~

~~$350~~

~~$175 per hour in excess of 2 hours of review~~

~~10.~~

~~Shoreline permits~~

~~a. Substantial development permits~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~b. Variances4 and conditional uses~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~c. Revisions (not due to required conditions)~~

~~3/4~~

~~$350~~

~~$175 per hour in excess of 2 hours of review~~

~~11.~~

~~Short subdivisions5~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~12.~~

~~Sidewalk cafes~~

~~3/4~~

~~$875~~

~~None~~

~~13.~~

~~Special accommodation~~

~~3/4~~

~~$350~~

~~None~~

~~14.~~

~~Special exceptions~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~15.~~

~~Structural building overhangs and areaways~~

~~a. Application as a separate component~~

~~$350~~

~~None~~

~~b. Included as part of a land use or development permit review~~

~~None~~

~~None~~

~~16.~~

~~Temporary use permit for more than 4 weeks~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~17.~~

~~Variances4~~

~~A~~

~~$1,520~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~18.~~

~~Vegetation removal6~~

~~Class A~~

~~$250~~

~~None~~

~~Class B~~

~~$125~~

~~None~~

~~Class C~~

~~$65~~

~~None~~

~~COUNCIL and HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS~~

~~Land Use Fee For:~~

~~Type of Land Use Review Fee~~

~~Minimum Land Use Review Fee~~

~~Hourly Land Use Fee1~~

~~1.~~

~~Concept approvals (e.g., planned community/ residential development, public projects, City facilities, plan shoreline developments, other general development plans)~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~2.~~

~~Council conditional uses~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~3.~~

~~Full subdivisions7~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~4.~~

~~Major Institution~~

~~a. Master Plans~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour (40 hour deposit)~~

~~b. Designation~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~5.~~

~~Zoning map changes and rezones~~

~~B~~

~~$2,533~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~MISCELLANEOUS REVIEWS, RESEARCH AND SERVICES~~

~~Land Use Fee For:~~

~~Minimum Land Use Review Fee~~

~~Hourly Land Use Fee1~~

~~1.~~

~~Certificate of land use~~

~~$110~~

~~None~~

~~2.~~

~~Concurrency~~

~~(Reserved)~~

~~(Reserved)~~

~~3.~~

~~Curbcuts~~

~~a. Application as a separate component~~

~~$26.00 each single-family residential; $55.00 each other than single-family residential~~

~~b. Included as part of a land use or development permit review~~

~~None~~

~~None~~

~~4.~~

~~Development potential analysis~~

~~$550.00~~

~~$110 per hour in excess of 5 hours of review~~

~~5.~~

~~Establishing use for the record~~

~~$350~~

~~None~~

~~6.~~

~~Interpretations8~~

~~a. Interpretations~~

~~$660~~

~~None~~

~~b. Interpretations requested after publication of Director's report~~

~~$880~~

~~None~~

~~c. Major Institution master plan~~

~~$350~~

~~$175 per hour in excess of 2 hours of review~~

~~7.~~

~~Legal building site letters~~

~~$660~~

~~None~~

~~8.~~

~~Major Institution - review of annual plan~~

~~$1,300 per year~~

~~None~~

~~9.~~

~~Major phased development permit - minor amendment~~

~~$350~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~10.~~

~~Neighborhood planning~~

~~(Reserved)~~

~~(Reserved)~~

~~See Table D-2~~

~~11.~~

~~Noise survey review and variance~~

~~12.~~

~~Notice (additional)9~~

~~a. Land use information bulletin (GMR notice)~~

~~$65~~

~~None~~

~~b. Reposting large sign or placards~~

~~$125~~

~~None~~

~~c. Mailed notice~~

~~$250~~

~~None~~

~~d. Landslide prone notice~~

~~$190~~

~~None~~

~~13.~~

~~Open space remainder lots and surplus state property~~

~~$845~~

~~None~~

~~14.~~

~~Preapplication conference10~~

~~$100~~

~~None~~

~~15.~~

~~Rebuild letters~~

~~$375~~

~~None~~

~~16.~~

~~Records research~~

~~$110~~

~~$110 per hour in excess of 1 hour of research~~

~~17.~~

~~Renewals including shoreline renewals~~

~~$350~~

~~$175 per hour in excess of 2 hours of review~~

~~18.~~

~~Revisions other than shoreline revisions~~

~~$350~~

~~$175 per hour in excess of 2 hours of review~~

~~19.~~

~~School use and school development advisory committee reviews~~

~~$1,986~~

~~$175 per hour~~

~~Notes to Table C-1:~~1. The hourly fee shall be charged for hours in excess of the review hours covered by the minimum land use review fee.

 2. A flat fee of $430 shall be assessed by DCLU for Determinations of Non-significance (DNSs) and Mitigated Determinations of Non-significance (MDNSs) for projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located within a special review or landmark district. No hourly fees shall be assessed for these types of approvals unless DCLU is the lead agency.

 3. The minimum fee of $320 is applied to the cost to fabricate, install and remove the environmental review sign. If the sign is removed or defaced before the final City decision, the applicant will be responsible for paying the vendor contracted with the City to repair or replace the sign.

 4. The single variance fee shall be applicable whether the project requires one or multiple variances.

 5. Includes short subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

 6. The three classes are defined by Director's Rule 3-94.

 7. Includes full subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

 8. The fees for interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20. 25.22, and 25.24 shall be collected by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods.

 9. Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project.

 10 This fee is not refundable and shall be applied towards the permit application fee if an application for a permit is made within 6 months of the date of the pre-application conference and if the project is identified by address at the time of the pre-application conference.

Table C-1 LAND USE FEES

A. GENERAL PROVISIONS

Review Hours Covered by Minimum Fee

Type of Land Use Review

Minimum Fee

Hourly Fee1

General

Low-Income Housing2

A

$1,620

$250

20

30

B  C

$2,632  $3,897

$250  $250

10  16

20  26

B. MASTER USE PERMIT and ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS APPROVALS

Type of Land Use Review

Type of Land Use Review

1.

Administrative conditional uses (ACUs)

A

2.

Design review

a. Design review required by SMC 25.11.070 or 25.11.080 to protect exceptional tree when no other land use reviews are required

See Item 19 of this table.

b. Design review elected by applicant for tree protection

See Item 19 of this table.

c. All other design review

A

3.

Environmental reviews (SEPA), including projects with more than one addressed site3

a. DNSs, mitigated DNSs, other lead agency project review

B

b. DSs and EISs

B; 40 hour deposit is required

c. EIS addenda/SEIS

B; 10 hour deposit is required

d. PEIS latecomers fees

Reserved

4.

Environmentally critical areas (ECA)

a. Exemption review

See Section 22.900D.145.

b. Exception and wetland alteration exception

A

c. Yard reduction variance

B

d. Buffer reductions and restoration exceptions

A

e. Short plat cluster housing and ACU to recover development potential

B

5.

General development plan

B

6.

Plan shoreline permit -- See Council concept approvals

7.

Shoreline permits

a. Substantial development permits

B

b. Variances4 and conditional uses

B

c. Revisions (not due to required conditions)

See Item 39 of this table

8.

Short subdivisions5

B

9.

Special exceptions

B

10.

Temporary use permit for more than 4 weeks

B

11.

Variances4

A

C.  COUNCIL and HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS

Type of Land Use Review

Type of Review Fee

12.

Concept approvals (e.g., planned community/ residential development, public projects, City facilities, plan shoreline developments, other general development plans)

B

13.

Council conditional uses

B

14.

Full subdivisions6

B

15.

Major Institution

a. Master Plans

B; 40 hour deposit is required

b. Designation

B

16.

Zoning map changes and rezones

B

D. MISCELLANEOUS REVIEWS, RESEARCH, AND OTHER SERVICES

Type of Land Use Review

Minimum Land Use Review Fee

Hourly Land Use Review Fee1

Review Hours Covered by Minimum Fee

17.

Concurrency

Reserved

18.

Curb cuts as a separate component

a. single-family residential

$62 each

None

None

b. other than single-family residential

$125 each

None

None

19.

Design Review for Tree Protection7

a. Design review required by SMC 25.11.070 or 25.11.080 to protect exceptional tree when no other land use reviews are required

$1,000

$62 per hour for the second 10 hours; $250 per hour after 20 hours

10

b. Design review elected by applicant for tree protection

$0

$62 per hour for the second 10 hours; $250 per hour after 20 hours

10

20.

Development potential analysis

$1,000

$250

4

21.

Environmental review sign8

$370

None

None

22.

Establishing use for the record

$500

250

2

23.

Interpretations9

a. Interpretations

$1,500

$250

6

b. Interpretations requested after publication of Director's report

$2,000

$250

8

c. Major Institution master plan

$500

$250

2

24.

Legal building site letters

$1,250

$250

5

25.

Lot boundary adjustment

$1,250

$250

5

26.

Major Institution - review of annual plan

$1,500 per year

$250

6

27.

Major phased development permit - minor amendment

$500

$250

2

28.

Neighborhood planning

Reserved

29.

Noise survey review and variance

See Table D-2

30.

Notice (additional)10

a. Land use information bulletin (GMR notice)

$125

$250

0.5

b. Re-posting large sign or placards

$250

$250

1

c. Mailed notice

$500

$250

2

d. Landslide prone notice

$375

$250

1.5

31.

Open space remainder lots and surplus state property

$1,000

$250

4

32.

Pre-application conference11

 $100

$250

1

33.

Public benefit feature review

$500

$250

2

34.

Rebuild letters

$1,000

$250

4

35.

Records research

$110

$110

1

36.

Renewals including shoreline renewals

$500

$250

2

37.

Revisions other than shoreline revisions

$500

$250

2

38.

School use and school development advisory committee reviews

$2,500

$250

10

39.

Shoreline permit revisions not due to required conditions

$500

$250

2

40.

Sidewalk cafes

$1,250

$250

5

41.

Special accommodation

$500

$250

2

42.

Structural building overhangs and areaways as a separate component

$500

$250

2

43.

Vegetation removal12

a. Class A

$500

$250

2

b. Class B

$250

$250

1

c. Class C

$125

$250

0.5

Notes to Table C-1:

1. The hourly fee shall be charged for hours in excess of the review hours covered by the minimum land use review fee.

2. Low-income housing is housing which satisfies the definition of "low-income housing" in SMC 23.84.024. At least fifty percent of the total gross floor area of each structure on the site shall be committed to low-income housing use for at least 20 years.

3. A flat fee of $430 shall be assessed by DCLU for Determinations of Non-significance (DNSs) and Mitigated Determinations of Non-significance (MDNSs) for projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located within a special review or landmark district. No hourly fees shall be assessed for these types of approvals unless DCLU is the lead agency.

4. The single variance fee shall be applicable whether the project requires one or multiple variances.

5. Includes short subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

6. Includes full subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

 7. This fee applies when design review is initiated only for tree protection and the application has no other Type A or B components.

 8. The minimum fee is applied to the cost to fabricate, install and remove the environmental review sign. If the sign is removed or defaced before the final City decision, the applicant will be responsible for paying the vendor contracted with the City to repair or replace the sign.

 9. The fees for interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20, 25.22, and 25.24 shall be collected by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods.

10. Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project.

11. This fee is not refundable and shall be applied towards the permit application fee if an application for a permit is made within 6 months of the date of the pre-application conference and if the project is identified by address at the time of the pre- application conference. The pre-application conference fee covers a one hour conference. Additional pre-application review time will be charged at the hourly rate. See also Section 22.900C.010.E

12. The three classes are defined by Director's Rule 3- 94.

 H. Refunds.

~~Refunds of land use fees shall be calculated as specified in Table C-3, except as noted in Section 22.900C.010H 1 and 2 below. See also Section 22.900B.050.~~

 1. ~~Minimum Land Use Review Fee. Twenty-five percent of the minimum land use review fee set forth in Table C-1 and collected at the application is not refundable.~~Nonrefundable Fees. Fees for preapplication conferences and environmental signs are not refundable.

 2. Calculating Refunds for Land Use Fees. ~~The amount of refund for land use fees shall be calculated as specified in Table C-3. There is no minimum amount required for a refund.~~The amount of land use review fee that may be refunded is calculated as follows.

a. For refunds requested before a required notice is complete, the amount eligible for refund is 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee plus 100% of the hourly deposit, if any, paid by the applicant.  b. For refunds requested after notice is complete and for applications for which notice is not required, the amount eligible for refund is the number of hours of review time multiplied by $250, subtracted from the amount paid by the applicant.

~~~~Table C-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF LAND USE AND ZONING FEES

~~Stage in Review Process~~

~~Minimum Land Use Review Fee Amount to be Refunded~~

~~Hourly Fee Amount to be Refunded when Hourly Deposit has been Collected at Application~~

~~Initial processing complete and prior to public notice~~

~~Minimum land use review fee less 25%~~

~~100% of the hourly deposit~~

~~Notice published~~

~~Minimum land use review fee less 50%~~

~~100% of the hourly deposit~~

~~Review underway but application is not approved or report is not drafted~~

~~0% No refund allowed~~

~~Remainder of the hourly deposit minus accrued hourly charges~~

~~Permit is ready to issue or the report is drafted~~

~~0% No refund allowed~~

~~0% No refund allowed~~

~~Permit is issued or the report is published~~

~~0% No refund allowed~~

~~0% No refund allowed~~

 Section Section 22.900D.010A, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119766, is further amended as follows:

 22.900D.010 Development permit fees.

 A. General. The development fee shall cover the application, review and inspection process associated with new construction, additions, alterations, and repairs to existing buildings and establishment of use. The development fee shall consist of a permit fee and, where plans are ~~routed for review~~reviewed, a separate plan review fee. The permit fee and plan review fee shall be determined based on valuation, except as provided below.

 Section Subsection Table D-2 of Section 22.900D.010, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119766, is further amended as follows:

 Table D-2 - CALCULATION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES DETERMINED BY VALUE

 Percent of Development Fee Index (DFI) Calculated from Project Value as Specified in Table D-11

 Type of Development

 Permit Fee

 Plan Review Fee

 1. Building, with or without mechanical, with or without use2,3

 100% of DFI

 100% of DFI

 2. STFI (Subject to field inspection - building and/or mechanical without plan review)

 100% of DFI

 none

 3. ~~Mechanical permit separate from, but associated with, active building permit (See also Section 22.900D.090)~~Reserved

~~25% of DFI~~~~~~Reserved

~~25% of DFI~~

Reserved

 4. Mechanical permit ~~not associated with active~~ separate from building permit3 (See also Section 22.900D.090)

 100% of DFI

 100% of DFI

 5. Blanket permit review fees:

 a. Initial tenant alterations within 3 years of first tenant permit within a building where the area of work is more than 50,000 sq. ft.

 $1.50 per 100 square feet1

 $1.70 per 100 square feet1

 b. Initial tenant alterations after 3 years of first tenant permit, and other tenant alterations

 100% of DFI

 40% of DFI

 6. Initial tenant alterations within 18 months of first tenant permit (non-blanket permit initial tenant improvements to shell and core)~~3~~4

 25% of DFI based on new building value of shell and core

 25% of DFI based on new building value of shell and core

 Table D-2 - CALCULATION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES DETERMINED BY VALUE Continued

 Percent of Development Fee Index (DFI) Calculated from Project Value as Specified in Table D-11

 Type of Development

 Permit Fee

 Plan Review Fee

 7. Standard plans:

 a. Establishment of standard plan, including temporary structures . (For swimming pools, see Item 16 below.)

 100% of DFI

 100% of DFI

 b. Establishment of already-permitted plan as standard plan

 100% of DFI

None

 c. Subsequent reviews of standard plan, other than temporary structures

 100% of DFI

 40% of DFI

d. Subsequent reviews of standard plans for temporary structures

See Item 17 below

See Item 17 below

 8. Factory-built housing and commercial structures

~~$110~~

Base Fee x 1

~~$110~~

Base Fee x 1

 Special Development Fees

 Type of Development

 Permit Fee

 Plan Review Fee

 9. Establishing use for the record:

 a. Applications with no construction

 Base Fee x 1.5

None

 b. Applications with construction

 100% of DFI

 100% of DFI

 10. Noise survey reviews

 None

 $125 per hour; 30-minute minimum

 11. Parking facilities

 a. Outside a building

 See Sec. 22.900D.060

 b. Within or on a building

 See Sec. 22.900D.010.C

 12. Renewal fees

 a. Development permits and separate mechanical permits where original plans will be changed

 $125 per hour

 $125 per hour

 b. Development permits other than separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans

 Base Fee x 1.5

 c. Separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans

 Base Fee x 1

 13. Residential oil storage tanks

 See Table D-8

 14. Special inspection

 Base fee x 1

 15. Swimming pools~~4~~5 :

 a. Unenclosed pools accessory to Group R-3 Occupancy

 Base Fee x 4

 b. Unenclosed pools accessory to occupancies other than Group R-3

 Base Fee x 6

 c. Principal use unenclosed pools

 Base Fee x 6

 d. Future construction of an unenclosed swimming pool

 Base Fee x 1

 e. Initial approval of standard plan for swimming pool accessory to Group R-3 Occupancy

 Base Fee x 5

 f. Subsequent review of application based on approved swimming pool standard plan

 Base Fee x 1.5

 16. Temporary structures, such as commercial coaches; renewal of permits for temporary structures~~5~~6

 Base Fee x 2 per structure

 17. Temporary tents, off-site construction offices & similar facilities

 Base Fee x 2 plus $500 refundable deposit per site~~6~~7

 18. Temporary use permits:

 a. For 4 weeks or less~~7~~8

 Base Fee x 1.5

 b. For more than 4 weeks~~7~~8

 Base Fee x 2

 Notes to Table D-2:

 1. The minimum permit fee or plan review fee for value-based fees is $95.00.

 2. The minimum fee for accessory dwelling units is $180.00.

3. When there is no separate mechanical permit, the value of mechanical equipment included in the building permit application shall be included in the project value for the building permit.

~~3~~4. This fee is applicable only to those initial tenants that reflect the use and occupancy established in the shell and core permit. The value used shall be the new construction value used in calculating value for the core and shell permit.

~~4~~5. When a swimming pool is located within an enclosed building and is included in the building plans for that building, a separate fee shall not be charged for the swimming pool. The swimming pool area will be considered as floor area of the principal occupancy of the building.

~~5~~6. This fee shall not apply to any on-site, temporary construction office where a valid building permit is in force.

~~6~~7. All costs to the City for site cleanup shall be deducted from the deposit before the deposit is refunded.

~~7~~8. Master use permit ~~and zoning review~~ fees for such temporary uses shall be charged according to Table C-1.

 Section Subsections J and Table D-3 of Section 22.900D.010, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119766, are further amended as follows:

 J. Refunds.

 1. Refunds of development permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-3. See also Section 22.900B.050.

 2. Refunds shall not be given for the following fees:

 a. Demolition permits;

 b. Renewal or reestablishment of permits; and

 c. Preapplication conferences~~; and~~

~~d. Moved buildings pre-permit inspection fe~~~~e~~.

 Table D-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS of DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FEES

 I. Application Filed, Permit Not Issued.

 Stage in Review Process

 Amount of Permit Fee Eligible for Refund Based on 50% of Total Permit Fee Calculation1

 Amount of Plan Review Fee Eligible for Refund Based on 100% of Total Plan Review Fee Calculation

 A. Application filed, ~~review~~plans not routed

 40%

 90%

 B. Plans routed for initial review, review not complete

 20%

 80%

 C. Initial review completed, plans not approved

 0%

 70%

 D. Initial review completed, routed for first correction review, review of first corrections not completed.

 0%

 60%

 E. ~~Permit for~~Review of first corrections completed, plans not approved

 0%

 50%

 F. Plans routed for review of second corrections, but review not completed

 0%

 40%

 G. Review of second corrections completed, plans not approved.

 0%

 30%

 H. Review of third corrections not completed.

 0%

 20%

 I. Review of third corrections completed, plans not approved.

 0%

 10%

 J. Application approved, permit not issued.

 0%

 0%

 II. Permit Issued2

 Stage in Review Process

 Amount of Permit Fee Eligible for Refund Based on 100% of Total Permit Fee Calculation

 Amount of Plan Review Fee Eligible for Refund

 Permit issued, work not started

 25%

 0%

 Permit issued, work started

 0%

 0%

 Note to Table D-3:

 1. Fifty percent of the estimated permit fee is paid at the time the application is submitted. The amount refunded before the permit is issued is a percentage of the fifty percent.

 2. After the permit is issued, the entire permit fee has been paid. Therefore, the amount to be refunded after issuance is based on 100 percent of the permit fee.

 Section Section 22.900D.080, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119255, is further amended as follows:

 22.900D.080 Demolitions and relocations.

 A. Demolition.

~~1.~~ The fee for demolition permits is $165.00 ~~for demolitions not directly associated with a building permit and when a separate permit is issued for the demolition. No fee is charged for demolition that is a component of a building permit for construction of a new building or addition to an existing building~~.~~~~2. A demolition fee is charged regardless of whether the demolition permit is requested separately or in conjunction with a building and/or Master Use Permit, except that no demolition fee shall be charged where a building permit is issued in conjunction with a demolition permit

.

 B. Relocation other than floating homes.

 1. The fee to relocate a building from within the City to a location outside of the City is ~~the same as the fee for demolition~~$165.00 demolition fee for the site from which the building is moved.

 2. The fee to relocate a building ~~from outside the City~~ to any location within the City limits includes  (a) an amount

~~is~~ calculated according to Table D-2 as ~~if the building were~~for new construction for the foundation and additions to the building; and ~~plus a preapplication inspection fee charged in the amount of one times the Base Fee.~~

(b) a fee for alterations to the building calculated as for alterations to other buildings; and

(c) $165.00 demolition fee for the site from which the building is moved.

 3.~~The fee to relocate a building within the City is calculated according to Table D-2 as if the building were new construction, plus applicable demolition fee for the site from which the building is moved, plus a preapplication inspection fee charged in the amount of one times the Base Fee to inspect the building prior to application.~~

~~4.~~ Relocation permits require a deposit or bond of $10,000.00, refundable upon the completion and approval of the foundation and framing.

~~5. A preapplication inspection fee of one times the Base Fee shall be paid prior to the inspection.~~

 C. Floating home relocation.

 The fee to relocate a floating home ~~within the same moorage~~ shall be charged at the rate of one and one-half times the Base Fee. ~~If the floating home is being relocated to a different moorage, the fee shall be charged at the rate of two and one-half times the Base Fee to include a preapplication site inspection.~~

 Section Section 22.900D.090, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119766, is further amended as follows:

 22.900D.090 Permit fees for mechanical equipment and systems, other than boilers and pressure vessels and refrigeration systems.

 A. Mechanical permit fees for the installation, replacement or major alteration of heating equipment, ~~domestic oil storage tanks,~~ incinerators and other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances shall be charged as set in Table D-8. Fees shall be charged for each furnace when it is applied for without plans. No separate fee shall be charged for a furnace when it is included in plans for a mechanical air-handling system submitted for a mechanical permit.

 B. Mechanical permits are considered part of a building permit, with no additional fee, when mechanical plans are ~~submitted~~ reviewed at the same time as structural and architectural plans for the same building project. The fees for a separate mechanical permit for installation, alteration or repair of mechanical air-handling systems, including ducts attached thereto, associated nonresidential heating and cooling equipment, and mechanical exhaust hoods, including ducts attached thereto, are charged per Table D-2.

 C. Mechanical Permits Subject to Energy Code. The fees for Energy Code review are included in the fees in Tables D-2 and D-8.

 D. Simple Mechanical Permits. The fee for work which the Director determines qualifies for a simple mechanical permit is $650.00 for five permits, each having a value of $130.00. Each $130.00 permit may be applied to work with a value up to $7,000.00.

 E. The fee to renew a mechanical permit ~~when no changes are made to the original permit is the lesser of the Base Fee and the original permit fee. The fee to renew a mechanical permit when changes are made to the original permit is $125.00 per hour for inspections and plan examination performed~~shall be as specified in Table D-2 .

 The fee to renew a furnace permit is one-half the Base Fee.

 F. The fee to reestablish a wood stove or furnace permit is one-half the Base Fee.

 Table D-8 - PERMIT FEES FOR MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT1

 Type of Installation

 Fee

 Forced air, gravity-type, or floor furnace1, gas or oil suspended heater, heat pump, recessed wall heater or floor-mounted space heater, wall furnace, circulating heater or woodstove/fireplace insert, including ducts and burners attached thereto

 $80.00 per unit3

 New gas or oil burners and newly installed used gas or oil burners2

 $80.00 per unit3

 Appliance vents Class A, B, BW or L when installed separately

 $64.00 per unit3

~~Residential oil storage tanks~~

~~$64.00 per unit3~~

 Mechanical air-handling systems

 See Table D-2.

 Appliances or equipment or other work not classed in other categories, or for which no other fee is listed.

 Hourly at $125 per hour. Minimum of one-half times the Base Fee.

 Notes to Table D-8:

 1. Renewal of a furnace permit shall be charged at the rate of one- half times the Base Fee.

 2. See Table D-12 for rates for burners installed in boilers.

 3. Fees shall be charged for furnaces when they are applied for without plans. No fee shall be charged for furnaces when they are included in plans for a mechanical air-handling system submitted for a mechanical permit.

 G. Refunds. Refunds of mechanical permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-9.

 Table D-9 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF MECHANICAL FEES

 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

 Stage in Review Process

 Amount Eligible for Refund

 Permit is issued; no work started.

 25%

 Permit is issued; work started.

 0% (No refund allowed)

 Section Section 22.900D.110.B, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119766, is further amended as follows:

 22.900D.110 New installations and alterations of boilers and pressure vessels.

 * * *

 B. Boiler permits subject to Energy Code. The Energy Code fee for boiler permits is ~~$17.00~~included in the fees specified in this section.

 Section Section 22.900D.145, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119766, is further amended as follows:

 22.900D.145 Site review fee.

 A. The fee for plan review and inspection of the following are as provided in this section and Table D-SR:

 1. ~~Grading~~Land-disturbing activity as defined in the Stormwater, Grading and Drainage Control Code SMC 22.801.130;

 2. Drainage, including temporary drainage and erosion and sedimentation control; and

 3. ~~Work that includes ground disturbance such as that required for foundation systems, retaining walls, and rockeries~~~~when the work is subject to the environmentally critical areas regulations for geologic hazards, or abandoned landfills~~.

 B. The minimum fees for site review are specified in Table D-SR, and shall be paid at the time ~~of application~~specified in the Table. Hourly fees due in addition to the minimum fee will be calculated during review. Payment of hourly fees is due at the times specified in Table D-SR or may be charged in accordance with Section 22.900B.010.  C. The charge for review time, including inspections, in excess of the time included in the minimum fee is $125 per hour.

~~C~~D. The fee for third party review as specified in the environmentally critical areas regulations, Seattle Municipal Code Section 25.09.080C, and for shoring review is the contract cost to the Department for the review plus an amount equal to 15% of the contract amount for administration and review of the third party geotechnical report and professional opinion. Seventy-five percent of the estimated contract amount shall be paid prior to the contract award. E. Site review fees are nonrefundable.

 Table D-SR - Site Review Fee

 Type of Site Review

 Minimum Fee

Time at which minimum fee is due

~~Hourly Fee~~Review Time Included in Minimum Fee

Time at Which hourly fees are due

1. Pre-application site inspection

$94

Before application is submitted

3/4 hour

At the time of application intake

~~1~~~~Drainage only~~

~~$125~~

~~$125 per hour after the first hour of review.~~

~~2. Pre-permit site inspection only~~

~~$63~~

~~$125 per hour after the first 1/2 hour of review~~

~~3. Drainage with pre-permit site inspection only~~

~~$188~~

~~$125 per hour after the first 1-1/2 hour of review.~~

~~4~~2. Drainage and~~G~~grading separate from a development permit

~~$188~~

$125

At the time of application intake

~~$125 per hour after 1-1/2~~1 hour ~~of review.~~

At the time of permit issuance

3. Review to determine Environmentally Critically Area exemption2

$63

At the time of application intake

1/2 hour

At the time of decision

~~5~~ 4. Site located in Environmentally Critically Area ~~but exempt from ECA standards and which requires drainage, grading and site inspection~~unless fully exempt from ECA standards

 $313

At the time of application intake

~~$125 per hour after the first~~ 2-1/2 hours ~~of review~~

At the time of permit issuance

~~6~~~~Site located in Environmentally Critically Area subject to ECA standards~~

5. Sites requiring Geotechnical and Drainage review

~~$500~~None-fee will be charged for each hour of review

Not Applicable

~~$125 per hour after the first 4 hours~~Not Applicable

At the time of permit issuance

~~7. Site located in Environmentally Critical Area requiring soils report~~

~~$500.00~~

~~$125 per hour after the first 4 hours~~

6. Post-issuance site inspection and other review

$125 times the minimum number of required inspections1

At the time of permit issuance

One hour times the minimum number of required inspections

At the time of final inspection, issuance of Certificate of Occupancy or permit expiration

Note to Table D-SR  1. The minimum number of required inspections shall be determined according to rules promulgated by the Director when the permit is issued. The charge for review time, including inspections, in excess of the time included in the minimum fee is $125 per hour.

2. The fee for review of exemptions applies to all levels of exemption.

 Section Section 22.900D.150.E, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119766, is repealed.

 Section Subsection Table D-15 of Section 22.900D.150, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119766, is further amended as follows:

 Table D-15 - ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES*

 (when plans are not required)

1. Administrative Fee

a. An administrative fee of $35.00 will be charged for items 2 through 8 and 10 in addition to the other fees specified in this table.

b. An administrative fee of $26.00 will be charged when work is added to an existing permit and when other information is changed.

~~Combined Single Family Alteration Permit~~

~~Electrical Component~~

~~Fee~~

~~No service change~~

~~$55 plus Outlet Fee1~~

~~Service change~~

~~$112 plus Outlet Fee1~~

~~INSTALLATIONS~~

~~A charge2 of $35 plus the following shall be charged:~~

~~TYPE OF INSTALLATION~~~~~~2. Services

 Size

 Fee

a. Services (installation, relocation and temporary installations; size based on conductor ampacity)

 1 - 125A

 126 - 200A

 201 - 300A

 301 - 400A

 401 - 500A

 501 - 599A

 $43.00

 71.00

 99.00

 142.00

 170.00

 207.00

b. Temporary construction power for single-family residence

Any

43.00

~~Feeders3~~

~~~~120V only

~~240V- 3-Phase~~

~~~~>480V

~~15-20A~~

~~$ 6.80~~

~~$ 8.60~~

~~$ 8.60~~

~~30-40A~~

~~8.60~~

~~15.40~~

~~15.70~~

~~50-70A~~

~~13.60~~

~~22.50~~

~~29.30~~

~~90-100A~~

~~29.30~~

~~36.80~~

~~125-225A~~

~~42.90~~

~~53.60~~

~~250-400A~~

~~73.00~~

~~89.00~~

~~450-600A~~

~~110.00~~

~~141.00~~

3. Feeders1

Size

120v only

208v-480v

>480v

15-25A

$7.00

$7.00

$15.00

30-50A

$15.00

$15.00

$30.00

60-125A

$22.50

$22.50

$45.00

150-225A

$30.00

$60.00

250-400A

$73.00

$89.00

450 & Above

$110.00

$141.00

4. Connections, Devices and Branch Circuits2

a. Connections

Fee

 Light outlet, switches, plugs, fixtures~~4~~3, residential-type fan

~~Each~~

 $ .90 each

 Track lighting or multi-outlet assembly

~~Per 2 feet of track~~

 .90 for every 2 feet of track

b. Devices and Branch Circuits

 Dimmer (commercial 2,000 watt or over)

~~Each~~

 $ 8.60 each

 Non-electric furnace~~5~~4

~~Each~~

 7.00 each

Dedicated~~A~~appliances & utilization ~~equipment~~circuits (cord and plug or direct wired)

 (15-25A)

~~Each~~

 7.00 each

 (30-50A)

~~Each~~

 15.00 each

 Range

~~Each~~

 15.00 each

 Water heater (220 volt)

~~Each~~

 15.00 each

 Floodlight~~6~~5

~~Each~~

~~13.60~~3.20 each

Sign

19.00 each

~~A charge2 of $35 plus the following shall be charged:~~ ))

5. Transformer Installations6

Fee

Up to 300 VA

$3.20

Up to 6 KVA

$7.00

Up to 15 KVA

$22.50

Up to 30 KVA

$30.00

Up to 45 KVA

$43.00

Up to 75 KVA

$71.00

Up to 112.5 KVA

$142.00

Up to 225 KVA

$170.00

> 225 KVA

$207.00

6. Motor Installations

~~TYPE OF INSTALLATION~~

~~SIZE~~

 Fee

~~Sign~~

~~Each~~

~~$ 19.00~~

~~Motors:~~

 Up to 1/3 HP

 $ 3.20

 Up to 3/4 HP

 7.00

 Up to 3 HP

 10.70

 Up to 5 HP

 13.60

 Up to 10 HP

 17.00

 Up to 20 HP

 25.00

 Up to 50 HP

 43.20

 Up to 100 HP

 59.30

 Up to 200 HP

 121.90

 Over 200 HP

 133.70

7. Electric Furnaces and Heaters:

Fee

 Up to 2 KW

 $ 3.20

 Up to 5 KW

 7.00

 Up to 15 KW

 9.60

 Up to 30 KW

 18.90

 Up to 50 KW

 40.80

 66.50

 Up to 100 KW

 Up to 200 KW

 162.00

 Over 200 KW

 270.00

~~Temporary construction power for single-family residence~~

~~Any~~

~~$43.00~~

8. Low-voltage and Communication Systems

Fee

a. Low-voltage systems7 ~~(all types except communication systems)~~-sound systems, security systems, fire alarms, nurse call, industrial controls and similar

 Requires separate permit for each system

 Control unit

~~Each~~

 $ 2.65 each

 Device (actuating, horn, alarm, etc.)

~~Each~~

 .65 each

 Control systems (>100 volts) shall be based on the feeder schedule

b. Communications systems8-voice cable, data cable, coaxial cable, fiber optics and similar.The maximum fee is $235.

Control unit

$ 2.65 each

Outlet

.65 each

~~0-1,000'~~

~~No permit required*~~

~~1,001-2,000'~~

~~$ 46.00~~

~~2,001-5,000'~~

~~94.00~~

~~5,001-10,000'~~

~~142.00~~

~~10,001-30,000'~~

~~187.00~~

~~Over 30,000'~~

~~235.00~~

9. Special Events:

a.Inspections occurring during normal business hours-$62.50 for first one-half hour; $125 per hour for additional time

b.Inspections occurring outside normal business hours- $187.50

10. Inspections for which no other fee is listed

 Each

 $125.00 per hour; minimum one-half hour

 *See Electrical Code for permit exemptions

 Notes to Table D-15:

 1. ~~The outlet fee is equal to $4.50 times the number of rooms with electrical alteration.~~2.

~~Additions, exclusive of service changes or heat circuits, with a total fee of 25% or less of the fee of the permit may be added to an existing permit at the rates in this chart plus $14.00.~~

~~3.~~ Feeders will be charged only for (a) subpanels, (b) distribution panels, and (c) branch circuits of 60 amperes or over.

2. Fees will be charged according to either section 4a or 4b. Section 4a will be used only when fees according to section 4b cannot be determined.

~~4~~3. Fixtures will be charged only for replacement, reinstallation or installation separate from light outlet wiring.

~~5~~4. For furnaces where service exceeds 25 amperes, provided an additional feeder fee shall not be charged. For furnaces where service is 25 amperes or less, the furnace fee shall not apply provided a feeder fee is charged.

~~6~~5. Outdoor area lighting (parking lots, streets, etc.) The floodlight fee is charged per luminaire.

6. The transformer fee includes the primary feeder and one secondary feeder up to and including the first panelboard or disconnect. Additional secondary panelboards or disconnecting means are charged at the appropriate feeder rate.

7. Low-voltage systems include, but are not limited to, systems listed in Chapter 7 ~~and Chapter 8~~ of the National Electrical Code.

8. Communication systems include, but are not limited to, systems listed in Article 770 and Chapter 8 of the National Electrical Code.

 Section Subsections H and Table D-15 of Section 22.900D.150, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119766, is further amended as follows:

 22.900D.150 Electrical permit fees.

 * * *

 H. Refunds.

 Refunds of electrical fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-16. See also Section 22.900B.050.

 Table D-16 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF ELECTRICAL FEES

 ELECTRICAL: FOR PLAN REVIEW OR OVER-THE-COUNTER (OTC) PERMITS

 Stage in Review/Inspection Process

 Amount Eligible for Refund

 Permit filed, plan review required but not started

 100% minus 1/2-hour processing fee

 Plan review started or completed, no inspections

 100% minus the sum of the following: any accrued hourly charges for plan review ~~+ energy fee~~

 Plan review completed/permit issued and inspection(s) made, permit not finaled

 100% minus the sum of the following: any accrued hourly charges for plan review + 1/2-hour charge for each inspection made ~~+ energy fee~~

 Advance plan review process completed but permit not issued

 100% of fee paid minus the sum of the following: any hourly charges for plan review ~~+ energy fee~~

 Permit issued (OTC) (no plan review required) no inspection(s) requested

 100% minus the sum of the following: $~~45.00~~35.00 + 1/2-hour charge for one inspection.

 Permit issued (OTC) (no plan review required) Inspection(s) made, permit not finaled

 100% minus the sum of the following: $~~45.00~~35.00 + 1/2-hour charge for each inspection made ~~+ energy fee~~

 Sign permit filed, plan review required, no inspections made

 100% minus 1/2-hour processing fee

 Sign permit filed, plan review required, inspections made, permit not finaled

 100% minus the sum of the following: 1/2-hour processing fee + 1/2- hour charge for each inspection made

 Any permit finaled

 No refund

 Section Section 22.900D.160.D, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119255, is further amended as follows:

 22.900D.160 Sign, billboard, awning and canopy permit fees.

 * * *

 D. ~~Painted w~~Wall signs.

 The maximum fee for ~~an on-premises~~ signs painted on or otherwise applied directly ~~on~~to the building wall without a frame or mechanical fasteners is $305.00.

 Section Section 22.900E.010, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119255, is further amended as follows:

 22.900E.010 Off-premises advertising sign (billboard) registration fees.

~~Registration fees for off-premises advertising signs (billboards) are waived for the period of January 1, 1999 through December 31, 2000. Registration of such signs on or before July 1st of each year is required, but no fee shall be charged.~~

A registration fee of $40.00 shall be charged initially to establish and annually to renew each face of an off-premises advertising sign (billboard). The renewal fees are due on or before July 1, 2002 and on July 1 of each subsequent year.

 Section Section 22.900E.030, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119255, is further amended as follows:

 22.900E.030 Fees for elevator certificates of inspection.

 A. Certificates of inspection for elevators will be issued upon acceptance inspection and for each subsequent annual reinspection after payment of the fee set in Table E-2.

 B. The fee for renewal of a certificate of inspection to operate any conveyance is as set in Table E-2.

 Table E-2 - FEES FOR ELEVATOR CERTIFICATES OF INSPECTION1

 Type of Conveyance

 Fee for Each Conveyance

 Hydraulic elevators

 $110.00

 Cable elevators2, 3

 $150.00 plus $11.00 for each hoistway opening in excess of two

 Sidewalk elevators

 $100.00

 Hand-powered elevators

 $100.00

 Dumbwaiters

 $100.00

 Escalators and moving walks

 $150.00

 Handicap lifts (vertical and inclined)

 $95.00

 Material lifts

 $100.00

 Fire emergency systems, Phase I or both Phase I and Phase II

 $50.00

 Notes to Table E-2:

 1. Each separately-powered unit is considered a separate conveyance. Separate applications and permits are required for each conveyance. (See Section 3006.1, Seattle Building Code.)

 2. Elevators having a continuous hoistway wall of 100 feet or more without openings shall be charged a fee of $245.00 plus $11.00 for each hoistway opening in excess of two.

3. The fee for roped hydraulic elevators is the same as cable elevators.

 Section Section 22.900F.020, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119255, is further amended as follows:

 22.900F.020 Noise fees.

 A. Certain construction and land use proposals require noise survey reviews. Project review shall be charged according to Table F-2. Any hourly fees owed shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision is required, hourly fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 B. Applications for noise variances shall be charged according to Table F-2, except for applications for temporary noise variances as components of a master filming permit issued pursuant to SMC Section 15.35.010 which shall be charged as part of the single fee for the master filming permit. In addition to the amounts specified in Table F-2, applicants shall reimburse the Department for actual costs associated with review of the application.

The fee for~~R~~renewal of noise variances ~~shall be assessed at~~is the same ~~rate.~~as for new applications.

 Fees for noise variances are not refundable.

 Table F-2 - NOISE FEES

 Type

 Permit Fee

 Project Review Fee

 Temporary noise variance

 (No separate fee when issued as part of a master filming permit)

 $100

 None

 Economic/technical variance in residential zones

 $100

 $~~110~~125 per hour (2-hour deposit)

 Economic/technical variance in commercial/industrial zones

 $250

~~110~~125 per hour (2-hour deposit)

 Noise survey reviews

 See Table D-2

 See Table D-2

 Section Section 25.08.570, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 114832, rescinded.

 Section This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ______ day of ______________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _______ day of _______________, 2001.

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of ________________, 2001.

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ________________, 2001.

 City Clerk

 Traxler/RMG

 2001 Ordinance

 6/19/01

 Ver #3

 3

 6

```
