

********

**Council Bill Number: 113808**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120496**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the acquisition of certain real property located at North 67th Street and Linden Avenue North in the Green Lake neighborhood for open space, park, and recreation purposes; authorizing acceptance of the deed; and making an appropriation from the 2000 Parks Levy Fund for acquisition and related costs, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 4, 2001
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Wills)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 5, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 5, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 20, 2001
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts and Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, GREEN-LAKE, PARKS, OPEN-SPACE-LAND, NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 120024

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the acquisition of certain real property located at North 67th Street and Linden Avenue North in the Green Lake neighborhood for open space, park, and recreation purposes; authorizing acceptance of the deed; and making an appropriation from the 2000 Parks Levy Fund for acquisition and related costs, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, the Green Lake Neighborhood Plan recommends acquisition of the Green Lake Open Space, located at North 67th Street and Linden Avenue North; and

 WHEREAS, the Neighborhood Parks and Green Spaces Levy, as proposed by Ordinance 120024 and approved by Seattle voters in the November 7, 2000, provides funds for acquisition of new neighborhood parks and green spaces; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120024 identified the Green Lake Open Space for acquisition with 2000 Parks Levy funding in the Neighborhood Park Acquisition subcategory; and

 WHEREAS, the voters of Seattle approved the Neighborhood Parks and Green Spaces Levy on November 7, 2000; Now Therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation or his designee is authorized, on behalf of The City of Seattle, to acquire the following described real property ("Property") for open space, park and recreation purposes in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by this reference:

 The east 25 feet of Lot 36 and all of Lot 37, together with the south 84 feet of

 Lots 38, 39, and 40, Block 3, Craven's Division of Green Lake, according to the

 plat thereof recorded in Volume 4 of Plats, page 3, in King County, Washington.

 Upon delivery of the special warranty deed for the Property, the Superintendent is authorized to accept the deed on behalf of The City of Seattle for open space, park and recreation purposes, and the Property shall be under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation.

 Section 2. To pay for the acquisition authorized in Section 1 above and for related acquisition costs, the sum of Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars ($800,000.00) is hereby appropriated from the 2000 Parks Levy Fund as part of Capital Improvement Program K723001. The 2001 Budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation is increased accordingly.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. The foregoing appropriations are made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the City for which insufficient appropriation has been made due to causes which could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of making the 2001 Budget. Now, Therefore, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reason of the facts above stated, this ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the members of the City Council the _____ day of __________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2001.

 ______________________________________

 President ____________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _______ day of __________, 2001

 ______________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________, 2001

 _____________________________________

 (SEAL) City Clerk

 BlairB

 67LINord.doc

 July 6, 2001

 V #1

 EXHIBIT A

 REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 This Agreement is made by and between U. S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, AS Personal Representative of THE ESTATE OF MARGARET STEIN O'NEIL, deceased, ("Seller"), and The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation ("Buyer"), for purchase and sale of that certain real property situated in King County, Washington, described on Exhibit A, and all rights appurtenant thereto (the "Property"), subject to the terms and provisions set forth below. The effective date of this Agreement shall be the date this Agreement has been signed by both Seller and Buyer.

 1. PURCHASE PRICE; PAYMENT. The total purchase price for the Property is SEVEN HUNDRED SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS AND NO/100ths (US$760,000.00) ("Purchase Price"). The Purchase Price is payable as follows:

 1.1 Deposit. When this Agreement is signed by both Buyer and Seller, Buyer will deposit with Pacific Northwest Title Company of Washington, Inc. ("Closing Agent"), at 215 Columbia Street, Seattle, Washington 98104, a copy of this Agreement and Buyer's earnest money deposit in the amount of TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS AND NO/100ths (US$10,000.00) ("Deposit") in the form of a check made payable to Closing Agent. Closing Agent will apply or disburse the Deposit as provided in this Agreement. Upon closing, the Deposit will be applied to the Purchase Price.

 1.2 Balance of Purchase Price. The balance of the Purchase Price will be paid at closing in cash.

 2. TITLE.

 2.1 Deed. At closing, Seller will execute and deliver to Buyer a Special Statutory Warranty Deed conveying good and marketable title to the Property free and clear of all defects or encumbrances except for the lien of real estate taxes and drainage service charges not yet due and payable and those defects or encumbrances (if any) identified on Exhibit A (collectively, "Permitted Exceptions"). The Special Statutory Warranty Deed shall state the following: The Seller herein does not provide any warranties other than that it is the duly appointed non-intervention Personal Representative of the Estate of MARGARET STEIN O'NEIL, under King County Cause No. 01-4-01084-8SEA, and is authorized to sell the property in the administration of the estate, and a conveyance of said property in this transaction shall be pursuant to a Special Statutory Warranty Deed wherein the Seller warrants only that it is the duly appointed Personal Representative, with non-intervention powers, and with the authority to execute the conveyance in the administration of the estate.

 2.2 Title Insurance. At closing, Buyer shall receive (at Buyer's expense) an owner's Standard ALTA policy of title insurance, dated as of the closing date and insuring Buyer in the amount of the Purchase Price against loss or damage by reason of defect in Buyer's title to the Property subject only to the printed exclusions and general exceptions appearing in the policy form and any Permitted Exceptions.

 3. RISK OF LOSS. Seller will bear the risk of loss of or damage to the Property until the date of closing. In the event of landslides affecting the Property, destruction of vegetation, or other material loss of or damage to the Property prior to closing, Buyer may terminate this Agreement by giving notice of termination to Seller, or Seller may terminate this Agreement by giving notice of termination to Buyer.. Closing Agent shall refund the Deposit to Buyer and the parties shall have no further rights or obligations in connection with this Agreement.

 4. SELLER'S REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS. Seller represents, warrants and covenants to Buyer at the date of execution of this Agreement and the date of closing that:

 4.1 Authority. Seller, and the person signing on behalf of Seller, has full power and authority to execute this Agreement and perform Seller's obligations, and if Seller is a corporation, all necessary corporate action to authorize this transaction has been taken;

 4.2 No Leases. The Property is not subject to any leases, tenancies or rights of persons in possession;

 4.3 No Material Defect. Seller is unaware of any material defect in the Property. The Seller has never lived in the property and has no knowledge of any defects.;

 4.4 Condition of the Property: The property being purchased by the Buyer is vacant land and is being purchased "AS IS".

 4.5 Debris and Personal Property. Prior to closing, Seller will remove all debris and personal property located on the Property (if any), at Seller's cost and expense, and Seller will indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from all claims and expenses arising from such removal;

 4.6 Contamination. Seller has not received notification from any agency suggesting that the Property is in violation of any environmental laws or is or may be targeted for a Superfund cleanup. To the best of Seller's knowledge, the Property has not been used for dumping, as a landfill, waste storage or disposal site, or for the storage or disposal of any chemicals, petroleum products, or hazardous or dangerous wastes or substances;

 4.7 Fees and Commissions. Seller shall pay for any broker's or other commissions or fees incurred by Seller in connection with the sale of the Property and Seller shall indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from all such claims for commissions and/or fees; and

 4.8 Vegetation. Seller has not entered into any contract or agreements, either written or verbal, concerning removal, topping or other disturbance or destruction of vegetation on the Property. Except in the case of emergency, vegetation on the Property shall not be pruned, cut, removed or otherwise disturbed or destroyed during the term of this Agreement without the prior written consent of Buyer. If vegetation on the Property is removed, pruned, topped or otherwise disturbed or destroyed during the term of this Agreement, then, at the election of Buyer, this Agreement shall be rescinded or Seller shall replant and restore the damaged or destroyed vegetation at Seller's sole cost and expense at a time and according to a revegetation plan acceptable to Buyer. In the event that the closing date is prior to the optimum time of year for revegetation, then, at Buyer's election, sufficient funds to complete the revegetation plan shall be held back at closing from Seller's proceeds.

 4.9 Approval. This offer is subject to US Bank Trust Committee approval.

 5. BUYER'S AUTHORITY. Buyer represents and warrants to Seller that at the date of execution of this Agreement Buyer, the person signing on behalf of Buyer, has full power and authority to execute this Agreement and to perform Buyer's obligations hereunder.

 6. BUYER'S CONDITIONS.

 6.1 Feasibility Period. This Agreement is subject to Buyer's approval, in Buyer's sole discretion, of surveys, studies and reports received, commissioned or performed by Buyer or Buyer's agents. The Buyer shall have the right and duty to inspect the property or to have it inspected by a person of Buyer's choice, at the Buyer's expense. Seller makes no covenants, representations, or warranty as to the condition of the property for any purpose whatsoever or as to the physical condition of the property. Buyer shall have THIRTY (30) days from the date both Seller and Buyer have signed this Agreement to satisfy or waive this condition ("Feasibility Period"). If Buyer fails to deliver notice of satisfaction or waiver to Closing Agent before expiration of the Feasibility Period, this Agreement will terminate and Closing Agent will return the Deposit to Buyer upon demand. During the Feasibility Period Buyer and its agents may enter the Property at reasonable times to perform such studies and surveys as Buyer deems necessary; provided that Buyer will not perform any excavation or coring on the Property without Seller's prior consent. If Buyer performs any excavation or coring activities, Buyer will restore the property, and buyer further agrees to restore the property to its condition of the Effective Date of this Purchase and Sale Agreement for conditions resulting from Buyer's inspections and activities. Buyer to indemnify and hold harmless seller from any loss or liability resulting from the Buyer's inspections of the property.

 6.1 Approval. The Seattle City Council must have passed, and the Mayor must have approved, an ordinance approving Buyer's acquisition of the Property.

 7. CLOSING.

 7.1 Time for Closing. This sale will be closed in the office of Closing Agent not later than thirty (30) days from the date of Buyer's written notice of satisfaction or waiver of Buyer's Conditions. Buyer and Seller will deposit in escrow with Closing Agent all instruments, documents and monies necessary to complete the sale in accordance with this Agreement. As used in this Agreement, "closing" or "date of closing" means the date on which all appropriate documents are recorded and proceeds of sale are available for

 disbursement to Seller. Funds held in reserve accounts pursuant to escrow instructions shall be deemed, for purposes of this definition, as available for disbursement to Seller.

 7.2 Prorations; Closing Costs. Taxes and drainage service fees for the current year and collected rents, if Buyer has agreed to purchase the Property subject to a lease or leases, will be prorated as of the date of closing. Buyer will pay the premium for its owner's title insurance policy, the cost of recording the special warranty deed from Seller, and the Closing Agent's escrow fee. Seller will pay real estate excise taxes (if any are due).

 7.3 Possession. Buyer shall be entitled to possession of the Property upon closing.

 8. DEFAULT. Time is of the essence of this Agreement. If Seller has performed all of Seller's covenants and obligations under this Agreement, title is insurable as provided in Section 2.2, Seller's representations and warranties are true and accurate, Buyer's conditions (if any) are satisfied or waived, and Buyer fails or refuses to purchase the Property through no fault of Seller, the Deposit and Extension Fees (if any) will be forfeited to Seller and Buyer will have no further obligations or liability under this Agreement. If Seller is unable to (or does not) perform its covenants and obligations under this Agreement, if title is not insurable as provided in Section 2.2, or if Seller's representations and warranties are not all true and accurate, Closing Agent will return the Deposit to Buyer upon demand by Buyer, and Buyer may seek specific performance of this Agreement, damages or rescission. In any suit, action or appeal to enforce this Agreement or to interpret this Agreement, the prevailing party is entitled to recover its costs incurred therein, including attorneys' fees.

 9. NOTICES. All notices, waivers, elections, approvals and demands required or permitted to be given under this Agreement must be in writing and personally delivered, sent by United States certified mail, return receipt requested, to the addressee's mailing address set forth below, or sent by telecopy to the addressee's fax number set forth below. Any notice will be effective when actually received or, if mailed as provided herein, on the earlier of actual receipt or two (2) days after the date deposited in the mail.

 If to Buyer: City of Seattle, Department of Parks and Recreation

 800 Maynard Avenue South

 Seattle, Washington 98134

 Telephone: (206) 684-7032

 Fax: (206) 233-7038

 Attention: Donna Kruger

 If to Seller: Todd Pearson, Trust Officer

 U. S. Bank

 P. O. Box 720 WWH587

 Seattle, Washington 98111-00720

 Telephone: (206) 344-4571

 If to Closing Agent: Pacific Northwest Title of Washington, Inc.

 215 Columbia Street

 Seattle, Washington 98104

 Attention: Dian Maxwell

 Telephone: (206) 343-1319

 Fax: (206) 343-1306

 10. ACCEPTANCE. Seller offers to sell the property on the terms and conditions noted herein. Buyer shall have until midnight of July 16,2001 to accept this offer by delivering a signed copy hereof to the Seller. If the offer is not so accepted, it shall lapse.

 11. GENERAL. This is the entire agreement of Buyer and Seller with respect to the Property and supersedes all prior agreements between them, written or oral. This Agreement may be modified only in writing, signed by Buyer and Seller. Any waivers under this Agreement must be in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default will not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default. This Agreement is for the benefit of, and binding upon, Buyer and Seller and their heirs, personal representatives, successors and assigns. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision.

 12. SURVIVAL OF WARRANTIES. The terms, covenants, representations and warranties shall not merge in the deed of conveyance, but shall survive closing.

 Signed in duplicate original.

 BUYER: The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation

 By: ___________________________________________________________________

 Kenneth R. Bounds, Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation

 Date: _______________________

 SELLER: U.S. Bank of Washington, NA,, Personal Representative of the Estate of

 Margaret Stein O'Neill, under King County Cause Number 01-4-01084-8SEA

 By: _______________________________________________________________

 Todd Pearson, Trust Officer

 Date: _______________________

 EXHIBITS

 Exhibit A - Legal Description and Permitted Exceptions

 Seller acknowledges receipt of a copy of this Purchase and Sale Agreement signed by Buyer and Seller.

 U.S. Bank of Washington, NA,, Personal Representative of the Estate of

 Margaret Stein O'Neill, under King County Cause Number 01-4-01084-8SEA

 By: __________________________________________________________

 Todd Pearson, Trust Officer

 Date: _______________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this __________________________ day of __________________________, 2001, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Kenneth R. Bounds, known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle, the municipal corporation named in and which executed the foregoing document, and stated on oath that he was authorized to execute the foregoing document on behalf of said municipal corporation and signed the same as the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington

 ________________________________________

 Print or Type Notary Name

 residing at _______________________________________

 My commission expires: __________________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this __________________________ day of __________________________, 2001, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ___________________________________________________________ personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person who executed this instrument and acknowledged it to be his/her free and voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunder set my hand and official seal the day and year first above written.

 ___________________________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at __________________________________

 My commission expires: _______________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this __________________________ day of __________________________, 2001, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ___________________________________________________________________ _, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the ______________________________________________ of, __________________________________________ a Washington Corporation, the Corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that they were authorized to execute the said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year first above written.

 ___________________________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at __________________________________

 My commission expires: _______________________

 EXHIBIT A

 Addendum to the Purchase Agreement between parties US Bank National Association, as Personal Representative of the Estate of Margaret Stein O'Neil, deceased (Seller) and The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation (Buyer) pertaining to the purchase and sale of the property described as:

 The east 25 feet of Lot 36 and all of Lot 37;

 TOGETHER WITH the south 84 feet of Lots 38, 39, and 40, Block 3, Craven's Division of Green Lake Addition to Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 4 of Plats, page 3, in King County, Washington.

 Permitted Exceptions:

 Easement and the terms and conditions referenced therein, including, but not limited to, the following:

 Grantee: City of Seattle

 Purpose: Right of way

 Area affected: Portion of said property

 Recorded: December 1, 1920

 Recording Number: 1472321

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By________________________________ Date_________________

 US BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

 Personal Representative

 By________________________________ Date_________________

 By________________________________ Date_________________

 BlairB

 67LINexa.doc

 August 20, 2001

 V #1

 PSA 67th@Linden Printed on Recycled Paper

 Page 1

```
