

********

**Council Bill Number: 113884**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120590**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with Northwest Folklife for the presentation of Northwest Folklife Festivals at Seattle Center.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 29, 2001
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Pageler)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 5, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 2, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 1, 2001
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts and Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, CULTURAL-ACTIVITIES, COMMUNITY-CELEBRATIONS, FESTIBALS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with Northwest Folklife for the presentation of Northwest Folklife Festivals at Seattle Center.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, said Director is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with Northwest Folklife substantially in the form attached hereto and identified as "AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND NORTHWEST FOLKLIFE" for presentation of the 2002 through 2006 Northwest Folklife Festivals at Seattle Center.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2001.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001.

 ___________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Attachments

 AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND NORTHWEST FOLKLIFE

 EXHIBIT A Northwest Folklife Letter Dated Dec. 8, 2000

 EXHIBIT B Site Guidelines for Producing the Northwest Folklife Festival at Seattle Center

 EXHIBIT C Seattle Center Facility Addenda

 EXHIBIT D Special Terms and Conditions for Use of Office Space at Seattle Center

 EXHIBIT E Northwest Folklife Contract Insurance Requirements

 SC/nd

 D: Agreement

 9/12/01

 V #1

 December 8, 2000

 Jennifer Fischer

 Director of Marketing

 Seattle Center

 305 Harrison St.

 Seattle, WA 98109

 Dear Jennifer,

 In our discussions of Northwest Folklife's new contract with the City, we agreed to review our need to erect canopies on Sunday and Virginia Anderson's very legitimate wish to keep the grounds free of unused paraphernalia for as much of the weekend as possible. The purpose of this letter is to address this question in detail and to propose an alternative to Sunday morning work.

 As you know, our production crews and decorators start the load-in for Northwest Folklife on the Sunday prior to the Festival. We do this out of necessity for the huge number of projects, stages and activities that need to be set up in time for the Festival opening on Friday at 11:00 AM. There are many years when we are still scrambling to get everything done on Friday morning. In a word, there is no time to waste. Every minute between the end of the Seattle International Children's Festival and our start is critical.

 Realizing that weekend traffic, especially in the mornings, has increased at Seattle Center with the opening of the EMP and agreeing with that Virginia Anderson that everything must be done to mitigate the visual impact of canopies that are not actually in use, I would like to propose the following alternative to loading in on Sunday morning.

 ? We do not start erecting canopies until 4:00 PM on Sunday afternoon.

 ? After 4:00 on Sunday, we would erect canopies around the grounds in pockets that do not disturb activities. I proposed the following sites: Seattle Center Pavilion Courtyard, Alki Courtyard, the Bagley Roadway and the Mural Roadway (facing the Mural Amphitheatre).

 ? After 6:00 pm on Sunday, we would erect the canopies in the Northwest Court, across from Michaelangelos on Thomas Street and set up all the stages.

 ? In those years when the Seattle International Children's Festival loads out on the Sunday before our Festival, the canopies that we intend to reuse would be allowed to remain in place until Monday morning when we move them to the locations required for our event.

 Our schedule now calls for erecting canopies on Sunday, stringing sidewalls on Monday and Tuesday, loading equipment into the tents on Tuesday, and having the tents ready for sponsor load-in on Wednesday. I cannot stress enough how much we need the time on Sunday. Without it, it is impossible for us to finish everything in time to open on Friday.

 I know you understand how important this issue for us. I believe the alternative schedule proposed here and the restrictions it imposes on us will make our load-in work for Seattle Center and Northwest Folklife.

 Sincerely,

 Mea Fischelis

 Director of Operations

 Cc: Gary Wanser

 Michael Herschensohn

 NORTHWEST FOLKLIFE CONTRACT, EXHIBIT A

 Folklife Exhibit A.doc

 1 of 1

 September 26, 2001

 VISION STATEMENT

 Seattle Center is the nation's best gathering place. Its roots reach back more than 100 years as a site of Native American celebrations. Today this place is home to major sports teams, top performing arts groups and the city's most recognized attractions. It's the place to be for rock concerts and operas, art fairs, basketball, ballroom dancing and major festivals of the arts and culture that are signature events for Seattle, King County and the entire Pacific Northwest region.

 As an agency of the city, Seattle Center works hard to create environments respectful of each festival's distinctive mission, audience and needs. In order to meet the needs of each festival and to protect this precious site for all users at all times, these site guidelines have been drawn up as a framework around which to plan. They are designed to facilitate teamwork between Seattle Center staff and festival organizers. They convey the spirit of cooperation Seattle Center brings to making major festivals the heart of its outdoor programming.

 I. NORTHWEST FOLKLIFE FESTIVAL OBLIGATIONS

 A. NW Folklife shall employ or otherwise provide all professional staff necessary to ensure production of the Festival at Seattle Center. Such staff shall be employed consistent with the City's union agreements.

 B. For each annual Festival, NW Folklife shall submit to the Director the following planning and operational documentation on or by the indicated dates:

 July 1

 Draft Facility Use Plan for the following year's Festival*

 November 1

 Draft Organizational Budget for the following year**

 April 15

 Draft Event Service Order With Site Maps of Seattle Center. Licensee will submit Admissions requirements earlier if necessary but not before April 1.

 May 1

 Final Site/Facility Use Plan to Facility Sales

 May 1

 Final Event Service Order

 September 30

 Festival Report

 *Facility Use Plan: Each Facility Use Plan shall describe which facilities and areas of Seattle Center are proposed to be used for the Festival and what general activities would take place during the next Festival. NW Folklife shall be permitted to use Center House Conference Rooms G & H, free of any license fee, from the Friday prior to the Festival through completion of the Festival move-out. This usage shall be noted on the facility use plan. Load-in days for the NW Folklife Festival shall occur as per Exhibit A dated Dec. 8, 2000.

 **Draft Organizational Budget: Each Draft Organizational Budget shall pertain to Licensee's fiscal year and shall be prepared according to standard accounting practices.

 C. Event Service Order: Licensee shall develop and produce a separate Event Service Order for each Festival. If the Event Service Order submitted by Licensee is not consistent with the Site Guidelines and Facility Addenda, Seattle Center staff shall so notify Licensee and shall negotiate modifications to the Event Service Order to accommodate the needs of the parties and the Event Service Order shall thereafter be revised. Any costs incurred for the production of the revised Event Service Order shall be borne by Licensee.

 1) Each Event Service Order shall describe the complete technical and facility set-up desired in or on the Seattle Center facilities and grounds that have been reserved for use during that year's Festival, including all Seattle Center equipment, services, supplies and material within the specified facilities and available for use at specified "on-grounds areas", as indicated in the Site Guidelines and Facility Addenda, that Licensee desires to use for Festival purposes. Any equipment Licensee wishes to use that is not identified in the Site Guidelines for Major Festivals and the Seattle Center Facility Addenda publication as being generally available from Seattle Center is subject to the Director's approval, which approval shall be granted or denied, in writing, within fifteen (15) City working days after the City's receipt of the draft Event Service Order. No changes in the Final Event Service Order shall occur after May 1, unless due to circumstances beyond Licensee's. Licensee may supplement equipment provided by Seattle Center provide its own labor to set up, move out and operate said equipment provided such activities are consistent with then-current contracts between the City and its labor unions.

 2) Those items of Seattle Center production equipment that the Director approves for Festival use, as described in the approved Event Service Order, shall be provided to Licensee at no cost. If some or all of the requested equipment are or become unavailable for Festival use because of damage, destruction, or malfunction, the Director shall notify Licensee of the unavailability as soon as possible after such unavailability becomes known, and in such event the City shall make a good faith effort but shall not be obligated to furnish replacement items. A list of production equipment available for use during the Festival shall be given to Licensee each December during the term of this Agreement for the following year's Festival. Licensee shall return all Seattle Center equipment on or before the end of the move-out period specified for the facility or grounds area with respect to which such equipment is associated or related. The City shall cooperate with Licensee to install, in a timely manner, all stage and production facilities and equipment needed for the Festival, as determined by Licensee and as approved for such use by the Director. Supplying additional production equipment which is not available for use at Seattle Center generally throughout the year shall be the responsibility of Licensee.

 D. Festival Report: Each Festival Report shall include a complete financial and programmatic evaluation of the immediately preceding Festival, together with sample programs. Detailed recommendations for future efforts toward the planning, organizing, staging, production and evaluation of the Northwest Folklife Festival at Seattle Center also shall be submitted to the Director as part of the Festival Report.

 E. Acceptance of Documents. Except as otherwise provided in this section, if the Director determines that a portion or all of the documents or plans submitted by Licensee hereunder are unacceptable, for any reason, the Director shall notify Licensee of that determination, in writing, within thirty (30) working days after receipt of said document(s). Licensee shall have five (5) City working days to correct any deficiencies identified by the Director. The Director may forfeit a portion or all of the City obligations should the deficiencies not be corrected within this five (5) day period.

 II. GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR FESTIVAL OPERATIONS*

 All temporary and/or permanent modifications to Seattle Center buildings, landscape and/or equipment for Festivals must be reviewed and approved by the Seattle Center Festivals Coordinator and the Seattle Center Event Service Representative (ESR). Current City, State and Federal laws apply. Current agreements between the City and the unions apply. Questions about exemptions to the Site Standards are to be forwarded to the Seattle Center Festivals Coordinator and/or the Seattle Center Event Service Representative (ESR).

 A. The Festival shall advise any decorator, contractor, vendor, employee, volunteer or leasee of the Seattle Center Site Guidelines for Producing Major Festivals.

 B. Permanent damage to Seattle Center planted beds, trees, shrubs, etc., shall be billed at a minimum of $500.00 per incident.

 C. Levels of security will be negotiated between the Festival and the City. The Festival shall supply appropriate program- specific security.

 D. The Festivals shall maintain access to Seattle Center building entries, exits, fire lanes, restrooms, electrical panels (National Electrical Code requires a minimum 3' clearance), fire hydrants, sound equipment control rooms, ATM machines, site signs, telephones, drinking fountains, and the Monorail. If necessary, the Festivals shall supply additional traffic guards to ensure this during move-in/event/move-out times.

 E. Once the Festival lock/core system is in place, the Festival assumes responsibility for the facility and its contents. The Festival shall provide reasonable access to Seattle Center staff for cleaning. The Festival will provide a key to Seattle Center Engineers for emergency access.

 F. The Festival shall also use the Seattle Center Facility Addenda (or its successor) as a guideline for using Seattle Center facilities and grounds.

 G. The Seattle Center shall provide to the Festival equipment which is available and in the general inventory throughout the year, excluding portable equipment owned by the Seattle Center Foundation. Additional equipment needed for the event shall be provided by the Festival, including forklifts. Seattle Center desires that pieces of portable equipment stay within the facility to which they have been assigned. However, we will work with the Festival on deployment of equipment.

 H. Section 25.08.520 of the City Noise Control Ordinance shall be observed. Outdoor amplified sound shall not occur past 10PM each day per Noise Ordinance. A level of 100dbs is the goal for the Memorial Stadium prior to 10PM each day. The Festival Organization shall propose a noise abatement plan to Seattle Center should the current City Noise Control Ordinance pose operational problems.

 I. Burns are not allowed at Seattle Center. Any use of fire inside facilities and/or on the grounds must be pre-approved by Seattle Center and the Seattle Fire Department. Use of fire is also subject to the Washington Administrative Code.

 III. PROGRAMMING

 A. In the spirit of public safety, Seattle Center recommends programming the Intiman, Bagley Wright and Opera House (also the new Performance Hall) venues with acts that do not encourage audience dancing.

 B. Programming that may encourage audience participation may result in the need for additional security staffing, stage barricade, etc., at Festival expense. Festival agrees to work out this issue with Seattle Center on a case-by-case basis.

 C. Festival is responsible for any damage resulting from programming and within the guidelines of VIII.C of the contract.

 D. After hours parties in Seattle Center facilities or on Seattle Center grounds must be pre-approved. Alcohol is allowed in pre-approved Festival beer-garden and wine venues only.

 IV. BUILDINGS/FACILITIES/STRUCTURES

 A. Use only pre-approved tape on painted, varnished and/or finished surfaces.

 B. Building lights shall be modified only with the assistance or approval of the Seattle Center electrician.

 C. Festivals shall supply ladders as necessary.

 D. As a general rule to avoid ceiling damage, hanging items from Seattle Center facility ceilings must be pre-approved.

 E. Access to Seattle Center facility rooftops is generally restricted to Seattle Center staff.

 F. Only electric and propane powered vehicles are generally allowed to operate inside Seattle Center facilities during move- in/move out. These vehicles shall have pneumatic tires. Forklifts and other vehicles may be pre-approved for use by the Festival and Seattle Center. Display vehicles shall be pre-approved by the Seattle Center Festivals Coordinator and the Seattle Center Event Service Representative (ESR) and the Seattle Fire Department. The Festival is to provide adequate floor protection for move- in/event/move-out.

 G. A Festival banner may be attached to the Mercer Skybridge per current contract guidelines. The banner will be hung by the Seattle Center stage crew. The signs shall be a minimum of 12' long; maximum of 22' long. Maximum height of sign is 3-1/2'. Grommets shall be inset at 2' centers. General Festival sponsor banners shall not include advertisements for hard liquor (beer and wine allowed) or illegal activity.

 V. ELECTRICITY

 A. Festivals shall supply electrical cable and extension cords as necessary. Festivals shall hire electricians licensed in the State of Washington to install electrical cable and obtain the proper permits. All electrical work shall comply with the current City of Seattle Electrical Code and the National Electrical Code.

 B. Festivals' electrical systems shall conform to Seattle Center power sources.

 C. Electrical cables and/or microphone cords which cross aisles or walkways shall be appropriately suspended or covered with rubber channel mats (or grid mats if on lawn) to conform with safety standards and prevent trip hazards.

 D. Use of ungrounded "zip cord" for lighting displays is prohibited unless devices meet UL listings.

 VI. GROUNDS/LANDSCAPING

 A. The use of polystyrene is discouraged. Festival garbage and recycling programs are administered per current Festival contract.

 B. The minimum height for suspending over any campus roadway is 14'.

 C. Landscaped areas, including barked areas (excluding lawns), are generally off limits - no booths, storage, etc.

 D. Operation of all vehicles is allowed on asphalt surfaces only. Driving on pavers is discouraged. Driving on the lawn areas is not allowed. Should driving on any lawn area be necessary, 3/4" plywood shall be laid to cover wheel base and then removed as soon as possible.

 E. The general speed limit is 10 mph.

 F. Activities (i.e., vendor booths, massage tables, balloon blowers, fortune tellers, hair artists, bubble blowers, etc.) which are pre-approved by the Festival for lawn areas shall be placed on a 2"X" base and covered with plywood flooring. This guideline includes the entire activity area, including storage and cooking areas. All activities on lawn areas shall be pre-approved and listed in Event Service Order maps. In certain cases this guideline may not be feasible, and Festival will work with Seattle Center to protect the lawn as much as possible.

 G. All trees and limbs used for any Festival activity shall be protected with a protective layer of soft, woven material or rubber hose (burlap and foam padding approved). Any use of trees and limbs for Festival activity shall not exceed the strength of the tree. The Seattle Center Landscape Crew Chief reserves the right to disallow any activity which may damage or injure trees and limbs.

 H. All planted areas, including buildings, glass and lawns, shall be protected from heat caused by cooking equipment. The Festival will work with Seattle Center as much as possible to accommodate the need to provide protection from heat.

 I. Festivals shall provide adequate traffic guards to ensure that trees, buildings and other campus fixtures are not harmed by the move-in/move-out process. Heavy equipment should be directed away from lawns and vegetation to avoid damage. Heavy equipment shall not be allowed on grounds without adequate traffic guards.

 J. Staking is discouraged at Seattle Center to avoid damage to the underground water lines. Tents, stages, or other items which require guy wires should attach the ground end of the guy wire to concrete blocks (preferred). Should the need arise to stake into the ground, the maximum allowed is 12". Prior to staking, a Seattle Center Plumber or Gardener shall approve the length and location of the stakes. Stakes shall be pre-marked at 12" if possible.

 K. No dumping of any product, liquid or solid, is allowed anywhere on Seattle Center grounds. Festivals shall make arrangements to legally dispose of all liquid and solid refuse. Illegal dumping is subject to fines by Seattle Center and the King County Water Quality Department.

 L. The Seattle Center Landscape Crew Chief shall be advised on irrigation needs, redeployment of moveable planters and seating benches.

 M. Hanging Baskets are considered permanent fixtures and are not to be moved or damaged.

 N. Festivals shall work with Seattle Center to provide adequate fencing (picket is preferred in non-beer garden areas) to protect landscaped areas that are at high risk of damage due to programming. A fencing plan is to be agreed upon by the Festival and the Seattle Center Landscape Crew Chief to move-in.

 O. Adequate surface protection (i.e., astroturf) shall be provided for cooking, oil or grease-producing activities. Any waste produced from such activities shall be disposed of in appropriate containers supplied by and disposed of by the Festival (for grease) and Seattle Center (for ash).

 VII. MECHANICAL SYSTEMS/PLUMBING

 A. No heat or air conditioning will be available in any Seattle Center facility if the facility roll door is open. Special effects may impair the HVAC system (i.e., fire, smoke, etc.).

 B. Festivals shall endeavor to avoid blocking air return and supply grills. This is particularly important in the Northwest Rooms and the Exhibition Hall.

 C. Festivals shall work with Seattle Center plumbers to check for potable water locations before setting up for exhibits. All water connections to Seattle Center hardware shall be done by Seattle Center Plumber.

 VIII. SAFETY

 A. Forklift and general vehicle operators shall be licensed in accordance with all current laws. Forklift operators shall be competent to operate a forklift and successfully complete a training course as defined in the Washington Administrative Code 296-24-23025(2).

 B. No passengers shall be permitted on fork lifts, electric carts, or any other vehicle unless seated in the original passenger seats, one passenger to a seat.

 C. All Festival personnel shall wear appropriate safety gear.

 D. Vehicle traffic is discouraged once the event opens. Should vehicle use be necessary on grounds, the vehicle operators shall provide a minimum of one person to walk the vehicle through the crowd to the designated area(s). This person shall be easily visible to all patrons.

 E. It is the responsibility of Seattle Center staff to reasonably protect the facilities and grounds and ensure the safety of all patrons for all events. Seattle Center staff shall report safety concerns to the Director, Seattle Center Festival Coordinator, Duty Manager(s), Event Service Representative(s) and/or Building Manager(s) who will work closely with the Festival to create a safe environment for everyone.

 F. Seattle Center staff (Director, Seattle Center Festival Coordinator, Duty Manager(s), Event Service Representative(s) and/or Building Manager(s)) retain ultimate authority for safety issues, including halting performances and adjusting safety procedures in facilities if necessary. The Festival and Seattle Center will work on this guideline to form a safety plan agreeable to both organizations.

 G. Festival will invite the Seattle Center Festival coordinator and Event Service Representative to participate in the appropriate meetings with Seattle Fire Dept. and Seattle Police Dept.

 H. Festival shall provide adequate medical staff including a minimum of two paramedics on site for each event day.

 IX. PUBLIC ARTWORK

 A. A clear, unobstructed line of sight and access to all public art shall be maintained. No attachments of any kind shall be made to existing public artwork on the grounds. Festival may propose a variance to Seattle Center if appropriate on a case-by-case basis.

 X. CENTER HOUSE

 A. Seattle Center recommends using the Center House Stage for spectator events. Floor (i.e., expo) events are recommended for the third floor balcony area. Should the Festival choose not to program the Center House Stage, the Festival will give Seattle Center three months notice prior to the first day of the Festival so that Seattle Center can provide spectator programming.

 B. Programming on the Food Court Level shall not obstruct line- of-sight or walkways to Center House merchant establishments.

 C. It is a goal of Seattle Center to retain a maximum number of tables and chairs on the 2nd floor, food court area.

 D. Center House ingress/egress shall be maintained. Programming next to Center House access doors is discouraged.

 E. Festival shall work with Seattle Center Contracts & Concessions Office to create an access plan for employees of Center House merchant establishments prior to load-in. Center House deliveries will be coordinated with Festival.

 F. All Festival sales in Center House are to be approved by the Seattle Center Contracts & Concessions Office.

 XI. FLAG PAVILION/FESTIVAL PAVILION

 A. No beer gardens on the rooftop plaza.

 B. No large dynamic loads, i.e. merry-go-round, on the rooftop plaza.

 C. No trucks or other vehicles, other than Seattle Center forklifts, on the rooftop plaza.

 D. Temporary ice rink can be installed inside Festival Pavilion on west end.

 E. Load in/load out through front roll-up doors and/or west loading area and freight elevator, and back corridor.

 XII. FLAG PLAZA/FESTIVAL PAVILION PLAZA

 A. By law, nothing shall be attached to the Flag Plaza flag poles as they currently exist while the flags are flying. Flags may be re-deployed at the discretion of the Festival and Seattle Center.

 B Festival Pavilion Plaza Guidelines shall be produced in accordance with these Site Guidelines.

 XIII. FOUNDER'S COURT

 A. Food and/or beverage booths & vehicle operation in this area are generally discouraged.

 XIV. INT'L FOUNTAIN, DUPEN FOUNTAIN & OTHER ARTISTIC & DISPLAY FOUNTAINS

 A. Pedestrian traffic (including strollers and wheelchairs) is permitted in the Int'l fountain. Sun bathing with bathing suits is permitted in the Int'l Ftn. Bicycles and skates are not allowed in the Int'l Ftn. Any changes in the sound/water programming shall be discussed with the Seattle Center Festival Coordinator.

 B. Wading in the DuPen Fountain is permitted. Climbing the sculptures and rocks is not permitted.

 C. Children require an adult supervisor.

 D. Pets are generally not allowed in the fountains.

 E. Access to fountains shall be maintained. No attachments of any kind shall be made to fountains. Festival will work with Seattle Center to create a plan to monitor safety issues at the fountains.

 XV. KEYARENA

 A. Loading and unloading shall occur at the South service yard ONLY. Other doors and/or ramps are not considered appropriate loading routes. Elevator 5-R can be used if coordinated with ESR.

 B. Nothing larger than a non-motorized handtruck shall be wheeled down handicap access ramps.

 C. Generally, all operations for the Key Arena shall be in accordance with the general KeyArena operating guidelines.

 XVI. NORTHWEST ROOMS COURTYARD/BREEZEWAY

 A. No driving on the NW rooms breezeway between Snoqualmie & Shaw Rooms. Extreme crushing damage possible to people in rooms below.

 Working with the vehicular weight limits in the upper Northwest Court area is critical. The maximum weight limits directly in front of the NW Rooms doors are:

 Maximum vehicle load 10,600 lbs.

 Maximum axle load 8,500 lbs.

 Maximum wheel load 4,250 lbs.

 Maximum static load uniformly distributed

 over not less than a 4'x4' footprint 500 lbs./sq. ft.

 1/4-ton trucks and vehicles of comparable weight ONLY are permitted over the NW tunnel. Maximum weight limits in this are:

 Maximum vehicle load 5,000 lbs.

 Maximum axle load 4,000 lbs.

 Maximum wheel load 2,000 lbs.

 Maximum static load uniformly distributed

 over not less than a 4'x4' footprint 250 lbs./sq. ft.

 XVII. OPERA HOUSE/MCCAW HALL

 A. No vehicular traffic is permitted in the south balcony courtyard.

 B. Seattle Center recommends that the Orchestra Pit be in the fully-secured and safe "up" position at stage level. Placing the Orchestra Pit at any other level may result in the need for additional security at the Orchestra Pit at Festival expense.

 C. Lighting levels in the auditorium shall be kept at a safe level as determined by SFD and Seattle Center.

 D. Security staffing should be consistent with type of show. See also #1 under Programming.

 E. Generally, all operations for the Opera House & McCaw Hall shall be in accordance with the general Opera House & McCaw Hall operating guidelines.

 NORTHWEST FOLKLIFE CONTRACT, EXHIBIT B

 SITE GUIDELINES FOR PRODUCING THE NORTHWEST FOLKLIFE FESTIVAL AT SEATTLE CENTER

 Folklife Exhibit B.doc

 1 of 11

 September 26, 2001

 CONFERENCE CENTER

 ROOM

 A & H

 B & G

 F

 Room Capacities:

 Theatre Style

 120

 60

 60

 Classroom Style

 81

 36

 36

 Characteristics

 Dimensions

 27'x67'

 28'x28'

 27'x27'

 Square Footage

 1800

 785

 730

 Ceiling Height

 10'

 10'

 10'

 Carpeted Riser

 12'x8'x10"

 NA

 NA

 Floors

 Carpet

 Carpet

 Carpet

 Room Lighting

 Fluorescent & Incandescent

 same

 same

 Included with License Fee

 Projection Screen

 6'x10'

 NA

 NA

 Projection Table 2'x3'

 1 each

 1 each

 1

 House Sound System

 yes

 rental

 rental

 Microphones

 2 each

 NA

 NA

 Classroom tables are 30" x 6' and seat 3 people at each.

 One parking permit is available if all rooms are leased.

 Included with License Fee, subject to availability:

 Tables and chairs except for areas set by a

 decorator

 U.S. and State Flags

 Chalkboards

 Easels

 Lecterns, standing and table

 Electrical service connections must be performed by Seattle Center staff or Washington State licensed electricians approved by Seattle Center, and be in compliance with City of Seattle DCLU codes.

 For the safety of our guests, vehicular activity on the grounds is limited. Citations are issued for any vehicle which does not have a parking permit or 30 minute load/unload permit or which overstays the 30 minutes. Discuss your need for these with your ESR who will supply them where policy allows.

 ALL SEATTLE CENTER EQUIPMENT MUST BE SET UP AND OPERATED BY SEATTLE CENTER STAFF.

 SET-UPS: Facilities are cleaned prior to each Event and set according to the plan written by the Event Service Representative (ESR) assigned to your Event. This plan is based on your Event requirements which are due from you at least 15 days prior to the Event; additional charges apply if information is received later.

 One standard set-up per day is included with the license fee. Provision of an additional set-up on any day is subject to staff availability and additional labor charges.

 There is a freight elevator in the Southeast corner of Center House for moving in materials and equipment. Exhibitors may carry in and set-up their own exhibits. If porter service is needed, a commercial decorator should be contacted.

 SOUND: Additional sound equipment may be rented, including portable sound systems for Rooms B, F & G; these require hiring a Seattle Center Sound Operator to be in attendance at the Event. Sound from Rooms A & H may be patched through ceiling speakers into Rooms B, F & G, the hallways and the lobby. Tape players may be operated by the Licensee once they are installed by a Seattle Center Sound Operator.

 SIGNS AND POSTERS: Bulletin boards outside of each room are available for your use.

 Push pins and tacks may be used on the soft walls in the rooms, but not tape or staples. Nothing may be hung on finished wood, painted surfaces or windows by means of tape, tacks, nails, staples or mastic.

 There are no readerboards at Center House. Readerboards on the perimeter of the grounds may be rented subject to availability.

 PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS: Additional Seattle Center staff may be required for sound operation or Admissions tasks. Each of these must be paid for a minimum of four hours.

 ACCESSIBILITY: Wheelchairs and strollers can access Center House from the East, West & South sides. There are elevators to the 3rd Floor. Meeting rooms and restrooms are wheelchair accessible. Assistive listening systems are installed and per the Americans With Disabilities Act, devices must be made available by you to your guests. At the time of giving your Event requirements to your ESR arrangements should be made to activate the system and have receivers available.

 FIRST AID AND INCIDENT REPORTING: The Emergency Services Unit administers First Aid and takes incident reports as needed. Staff at the Customer Service Desk will radio them in response to your call from the white courtesy phone in the Conference Center lobby.

 EXHIBITION HALL

 Exhibition Hall

 Maximum Capacities:

 Theatre Style

 1000

 Banquets

 1890

 Characteristics

 Dimensions

 180' x 220'

 Square Footage

 40,000

 Ceiling Height

 7'11" - 18'6"

 Floors

 Composition Tile

 Room Lighting

 Fluorescent

 Support columns

 27 in 3 rows of 9 each running N to S

 Included with License Fee

 Tables 8' x 30" *

 5

 Chairs

 1000

 Parking Permit

 4

 Projection Table 2' x 3'

 1

 House Sound

 yes

 Microphones

 8

 These tables and chairs are not available for use in areas set by a decorator, such as exhibit spaces.

 Banquet capacity is based on 10 guests per 6' round table. Banquet tables are included with the License Fee if the primary purpose of the rental is for a catered Event. Linen service is not available. The charge for tables in excess of the number shown as included with the License Fee is $9.00 per 8' x 30" table, $9.00 per 6' round table.

 Classroom tables are 8' x 30" and may be rented at $9.00 per table for the run of the show. The tables included with the room rental can be supplied with white paper covers. Paper covers for additional tables are $2.00 each.

 As available, U.S. and Washington State flags, easels, chalkboards, and both table & standing lecterns are provided at no charge with the facility rental.

 For the safety of our guests, vehicular activity on the grounds is limited. Citations are issued to any vehicle which does not have a parking or 30 minute load/unload permit or which overstays the 30 minute limit. Discuss your need for access to the grounds with your ESR who will supply these permits where policy allows.

 All Seattle Center equipment must be set up and operated by Seattle Center staff.

 SET-UPS: Facilities are cleaned prior to each Event and set according to the plan written by the Event Service Representative (ESR) assigned to your Event. This plan is based on the Event requirements which are due from you at least 15 days prior to the Event; additional charges apply if information is received later.

 One standard set-up per day is included with the license fee. Provision of an additional set-up on any day is subject to staff availability and additional labor charges.

 There is a roll up door for loading access at the Southeast corner which is 18' wide by 13'6" high. If this door is left open for Move In or -Out neither heating nor cooling will be supplied to the building. Exhibitors may carry in their own material and set up their exhibits. If porter service is needed, a commercial decorator should be contacted.

 PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS: Depending on the nature of the Event, additional staff may be required. Sound or stage technicians may be needed to set up and remove equipment and to operate it during the Event. Admissions Guard(s) are required for traffic control during any time that an Event generates heavy vehicular activity. Other Admissions personnel may be required for Event security or crowd control, or as ushers or door attendants for shows or dances. For some Events additional security in the form of Seattle Police or peer group security may be required. The numbers of such personnel and whether they may be hired through Seattle Center or from outside sources will be determined by your ESR based on union regulations and Seattle Center policy. See Personnel Rates Addendum for rates which will be charged for these services.

 SOUND: Sound equipment in addition to the built-in system with ceiling speakers, is available for rental. Seattle Center Sound operators are required to operate all additional equipment we install except tape players. See Equipment Addendum for types of equipment available and current prices.

 STAGE: Stage platforms are rented by the unit and are available in various heights: 8", 16", 24", 32" and 48". Units are 4'x 8'. See Equipment Addendum. A stage consisting of 10 or fewer pieces will be set at no labor charge. Stage technicians are required to hang anything inside or in front of the building which requires a lift or ladder to be used. Exceptions may be made inside the building for qualified decorators. Theatrical lighting must be ground supported. The ceiling is not weight bearing and supports no rigging.

 CONCESSION STANDS are located at the north end of the hall. The Seattle Center concessionaire has the exclusive right to sell food and beverages but may agree to sell a waiver. For further information contact Service America at 448-9319.

 LOADING for exhibit shows is from the south side of the hall through the maintenance courtyard up the loading ramp, or for hand carried or trucked items, through the front doors. One traffic lane must be kept open on the loading ramp at all times for Fire Department access. Exhibitor load-in times should be staggered. Load/Unload permits for the exhibitors can be provided by your ESR.

 ELECTRICAL: 120V outlets are located on perimeter walls. Additional power is available:

 (3) 200A - 3P services

 (1) 100A - 3P service

 All services must be accessed through a power distribution terminal. Any electrical hook-ups must be done by a Washington State licensed electrician approved by Seattle Center and the work must comply with City of Seattle Department of Construction and Land Use codes.

 Lighting is controlled by breaker switches which turn off small groups of alternating fixtures to allow for different lighting levels throughout the building.

 WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE: Contact your ESR for information about water supply and drain locations and policies regarding hook-ups.

 FLOOR RESTRICTIONS: For protection of the tile floors, only certain types of tape are permitted. See your ESR for a list of acceptable tapes.

 Floor Loading Guide: Exhibition Hall & Founders Court

 Traffic Load: Max. Vehicle Weight: 5,000#

 Max. Single Axle Limit 4,000#

 Max. Single Wheel Limit 2,000#

 Static Load: Maximum Distributed uniformly over not less than 4'x4' area 250#/sq ft

 Load limits refer to pneumatic tired equipment only. Steel tread wheeled dollies are not allowed.

 All steel scaffolding and display supports must have foot pads under the vertical posts.

 SIGNS AND POSTERS: Outside banners may be hung from the north balcony railing; inside banners from railings on the east and west balconies. Any banners placed on inside walls which require ladders or lifting devices must be hung by Seattle Center stage personnel; exceptions may be granted for qualified decorators. Nothing may be hung on finished wood, painted surfaces or windows by means of tape, tacks, nails, staples or mastic.

 There is a two sided, lighted readerboard in front of the Exhibition Hall (north side). Each side has room for three lines with up to 14 characters on each line. This is available for your use at no charge on the day(s) of your event or on any immediately preceding dates, as available.

 ACCESSIBILITY: The Exhibition Hall is wheelchair and stroller accessible at the north entry doors by way of a ramp. The restrooms located in the northeast corner are wheelchair accessible.

 An assistive listening system is available for temporary installation. Per the Americans with Disabilities Act, you must make this available to your guests. Arrangements must be made with your ESR in advance of the Event to have the system installed and activated and receivers available. In order to activate the Assistive Listening System either a Seattle Center sound system must be in use or a feed provided from an outside system. The system is a single channel infrared system.

 Receivers can be distributed by a Seattle Center Admissions person if pre-arranged. Alternatively you may sign receivers out to guests. If the need for receivers is greater that the expectation, requests for additional receivers may be made on site by using the White Courtesy Phone located in Room E-101 to call the Customer Services Desk.

 FIRST AID AND INCIDENT REPORTING: The Emergency Services Unit administers First Aid and takes incident reports. Contact the Customer Services Desk by means of the white courtesy phone located in Room E-101 to report all incidents. They will radio an Emergency Services Unit officer.

 FLAG PAVILION

 Full Flag Pavilion

 Room A

 Room Capacities:

 Theatre Style

 1,800

 1,200

 Classroom Style 4 per table

 788

 500

 Classroom Style 3 per table

 591

 375

 Banquets

 1,200

 800

 Characteristics

 Dimensions*

 67'x263'

 67'x171'

 Approx. Square Footage

 17,600

 11,457

 Ceiling Height

 20'

 20'

 Floors

 Concrete

 Concrete

 Room Lighting

 Fluorescent

 Fluorescent

 Included with License Fee

 Tables 8' x 30"

 6

 4

 Chairs

 1,800

 1,200

 Parking Permit

 0

 Projection Table 2'x3'

 1

 1

 House Sound

 yes

 yes

 Microphones

 5

 4

 See floor plan for variance for utility closets.

 These tables and chairs are not available for use in

 areas set by a decorator.

 As available, U.S. and Washington State flags, easels, chalkboards, and both table & standing lecterns are provided at no charge with the facility rental.

 Banquet capacity is based on 10 guests per 6' round table. Banquet tables are included with the License Fee if the primary purpose of the rental is for a catered Event. No linen service is available. The charge for tables in excess of the number shown as included with the License Fee is $9.00 per 8' x 30" table, $9.00 per 6' round table.

 Classroom tables are 8' x 30" and may be rented at $9.00 per table for the run of the show. The tables which are included with the room rental can be supplied with white paper covers. Paper covers for additional tables are $2.00 each.

 For the safety of our guests, vehicular activity on the grounds is limited. Citations are issued to any vehicle which does not have a parking permit or 30 minute load/unload permit or which overstays the 30 minute limit. Discuss your need for access to the grounds with your Event Service Representative who will supply these permits where policy allows.

 ALL SEATTLE CENTER EQUIPMENT MUST BE SET UP AND OPERATED BY SEATTLE CENTER STAFF.

 SET-UPS: Facilities are cleaned prior to each Event and set according to the plan written by the Event Service Representative (ESR) assigned to your Event. This plan is based on the Event requirements which are due from you at least 15 days prior to the Event; additional charges apply if information is received later than this.

 One standard set-up per day is included with the license fee. Provision of an additional set-up on any day is subject to staff availability and additional labor charges.

 Exhibitors may carry in their own material and set up their exhibits. If porter service is needed, a commercial decorator should be contacted. There is a roll up door for loading access at the southwest corner which is 14.5' wide by 15.5' high. If this door is left open for Move-In or -Out, neither heating nor cooling will be supplied to the building.

 PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS: Depending on the nature of the Event, additional staff may be required. Sound or stage technicians may be needed to set up and remove equipment and to operate it during the Event. Admissions Guard(s) are required for traffic control during any time that an Event generates heavy vehicular activity. Other Admissions personnel may be required for Event security or crowd control, or as door attendants for dances. For some Events additional security in the form of Seattle Police or peer group security may be required. The numbers of such personnel and whether they may be hired through Seattle Center or from outside sources will be determined by your ESR based on union regulations and Seattle Center policy. See Personnel Rates Addendum for the rates which will be charged for these services.

 SOUND: Sound equipment in addition to the built-in system with ceiling speakers, is available for rental. Seattle Center Sound operators are required to operate all additional equipment we install except tape players. See Equipment Addendum for inventory and current prices.

 STAGE: Stage platforms are rented by the unit and are available in various heights: 10.5", 16", 24", 32" and 48". Units are 4'x 8' or 6'x 8'. See Equipment Addendum. A stage consisting of 10 or fewer pieces will be set at no labor charge. Stage technicians may be required if there are banners to be hung either inside or in front of the building. Theatrical lighting must be ground supported. The ceiling is not weight bearing and supports no rigging.

 ELECTRICAL: 120V outlets are located on perimeter walls.

 Additional power available:

 (2) 200A - 3P, 120/208V services in a utility closet

 (7) 50A - 1P, 120/208V services in floor pods

 All services are accessed through a power distribution terminal. Any electrical hook-ups must be done by a Washington State licensed electrician approved by Seattle Center and the work must comply with City of Seattle Department of Construction and Land Use Codes.

 FLOOR RESTRICTIONS:

 Floor Loading Guide:

 Traffic Load: Max Vehicle Weight: 10,000#

 Max Single Axle Limit 8,000#

 Max Single Wheel Limit 4,000#

 Static Load: Maximum distributed uniformly over not less than 4'x4' area 500#/sq. ft.

 SIGNS AND POSTERS: The south wall (the long wall) has a fabric portion in which tacks or pins (but not staples or tape) may be used. Nothing may be hung on finished wood, painted surfaces or windows by means of tape, tacks, nails, staples or mastic. Banners may be hung outside the North face of the Flag Pavilion on a pre- hung wire. These and any banners placed on an inside wall which require a ladder or lifting device must be hung by Seattle Center stage personnel.

 There are two lighted readerboards on the north side (front) of the building that are included with the rental of the Facility on the days for which you have rented it, or if no other Licensee is using the Facility and the readerboard is available, on immediately preceding days. These each have five lines and hold 14 characters per line.

 ACCESSIBILITY: The Flag Pavilion is wheelchair and stroller accessible at all entry doors on the north side of the building. There are wheelchair accessible restrooms at the west end of the Facility.

 An assistive listening system is installed. To comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, you must make this available to your guests. Arrange with your ESR in advance of the Event to activate the system and have receivers available. Either a Seattle Center sound system must be in use or a feed from an outside system must be provided in order to activate the Assistive Listening System. The system is a single channel radio frequency system.

 Receivers are signed out by your guests at the Customer Service Desk (open 7:00am-11:00pm daily) at which they will be asked to leave a picture ID such as a driver's license. This will be exchanged for the returned receiver after the Event. Alternatively, you may make arrangements in advance with your ESR to pick up receivers for use by your guests. Use the white courtesy phone at the northwest end of the room next to the office, to request additional receivers if you underestimate the number needed.

 FIRST AID AND INCIDENT REPORTING: The Emergency Services Unit administers First Aid and takes incident reports. Contact the Customer Service Desk by means of the white courtesy phone in the office at the west end of the building to report all incidents. They will radio an Emergency Services Unit officer.

 MERCER ARENA

 Mercer Arena

 Half Mercer Arena

 Room Capacities:

 Theatre Style

 6,181*

 3,247

 Combined Seating Concerts

 6,079*

 Classroom Seating 4 per table

 800

 ---

 Classroom Seating 3 per table

 600

 ---

 Banquet Seating

 1,000

 ---

 Characteristics

 Dimensions

 79'6" x 197"

 79'6" x 85

 Approx. Square Footage

 15,660

 6,755

 Ceiling Height

 40'

 40'

 Floors

 Concrete

 Concrete

 Room Lighting

 Metal Halide & Incandescent

 Included with License Fee

 Tables 8' x 30" ****

 5

 5

 Portable Chairs****

 1,864

 684

 Parking Permit

 6

 6

 Projection Table 2' x 3'

 1

 1

 Projection Screen

 24' x 30'

 None

 House Sound

 yes

 yes

 Microphones

 8

 4

 For Combined Seating concerts, Sections 51-93 will be reserved seating (2,809 seats based on no obscured view), and seats in Sections 1-50 plus standing room floor space will be General Admission up to and not exceeding 3,270 persons. No more than 2,750 General Admission tickets shall be sold prior to approval of the stage plan by the City. **Due to a grid at the South end of the floor clearance is 29' 6" for the first 20' from the South dasher.

 Floor is concrete; when flooded for ice surface, events will be on an insulated plywood floor over the ice.

 These tables and chairs are not available for use in areas set by a decorator, such as exhibit spaces.

 Banquet capacity is based on 10 guests at each 6' round table. Banquet tables are included with the License Fee if the primary purpose of the rental is for a catered Event. Linen service is not available. The charge for tables in excess of the number shown as included with the License Fee is $9.00 per 8' x 30" table, $9.00 per 6' round table.

 Classroom tables are 8' x 30" and may be rented at $9.00 per table for the run of the show. The tables included with the room rental can be supplied with white paper covers. Paper covers for additional tables are $2.00 each.

 As available, U.S. and Washington State flags, easels, chalkboards, and both table & standing lecterns are provided at no charge with the facility rental.

 For the safety of our guests, vehicular activity on the grounds is limited. Citations are issued to any vehicle which does not have a parking or 30 minute load/unload permit or which overstays the 30 minute limit. Discuss your need for access to the grounds with your ESR who will supply these permits where policy allows.

 ALL SEATTLE CENTER EQUIPMENT MUST BE SET UP AND OPERATED BY SEATTLE CENTER STAFF.

 SET-UPS: Facilities are cleaned prior to each Event and set according to the plan written by the Event Service Representative (ESR) assigned to your Event. This plan is based on the Event requirements which are due from you at least 15 days prior to the Event; additional charges apply if information is received later than this.

 One standard set-up per day is included with the license fee. Provision of an additional set-up on any day is subject to staff availability and additional labor charges.

 There is a roll up door for loading access at the south end of the Mercer Arena which is 16' wide x 15' high. If this door is left open for Move In or -Out neither heating nor cooling will be supplied to the building. Exhibitors may carry in their own material and set up their exhibits. If porter service is needed, a commercial decorator should be contacted.

 PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS: Depending on the nature of the Event, additional staff may be required. Sound or stage technicians may be required to set up and remove equipment and to operate it during the Event. Admissions Guard(s) are required for traffic control during any time that an Event generates heavy vehicular activity. Other Admissions personnel may be required for Event security or crowd control, or as door attendants and ushers for shows with an audience. For some Events additional security in the form of Seattle Police or peer group security may be required. The numbers of such personnel and whether they may be hired through Seattle Center or from outside sources will be determined by your ESR based on union regulations and Seattle Center policy. See Personnel Rates Addendum for rates that will be charged for their service.

 SOUND: There is a built-in sound system with speakers in the ceiling at the south end of the Mercer Arena and also in a cluster in the center of the facility. For half Mercer Arena, only the center cluster is used. Additional sound equipment is available for rental. Seattle Center Sound operators are required to attend to all such equipment, except tape players, during the Event. See Equipment Addendum for inventory and current prices.

 RIGGING: All weight bearing beams run East to West and are 28' 2" apart. The grid at the south end of the floor is not weight bearing. Floor to low beam height is 45'. For safety reasons, no rigging is done to high beam.

 STAGE: Stage platforms are rented by the unit and are available in various heights: 10.5", 16", 24", 32" and 48". Units are 4'x 8' or 6'x 8'. See Equipment Addendum. A stage consisting of 10 or fewer pieces will be set at no labor charge. Stage barricade is available for rent from Seattle Center. It is primarily plywood although there is a limited amount of bicycle barricade. Stage technicians will be required to hang anything inside which requires a ladder or lifting device. Consult your ESR regarding hanging banners outside.

 STAGE LIGHTING: There are 4 supertrouper spotlights in the Mercer Arena. The projection booth at the north end holds two of these, the other two are usually placed one each at the east & west corners at the back of the seating. There is enough power for a fifth supertrouper. Temporary lighting systems, rigged or ground supported, must be installed by Seattle Center stage personnel who also run all spotlights, whether rental, truss, or house. Road crew or lighting company personnel can run their lighting board. There are empty "buckets" on the east and west sides of the building; each location is served by a separate 20 AMP, single phase service.

 CONCESSION STANDS are located at the north end of the building. Seattle Center concessionaires have exclusive rights for the sale of food and beverage concessions and program and novelty concessions. Consult with your Event Service Representative to arrange for these services.

 TICKETING for all Spectator Events in the Mercer Arena is under exclusive contract with Ticketmaster for both advance and on-site ticketing. See Ticketing Addendum for further information.

 LOADING for shows is from the alley on the south side. This alley also serves Memorial Stadium, Exhibition Hall loading area and the Seattle Center maintenance areas. Therefore, only one truck at a time may unload and must be parked in such a way as to not block the alley. One lane of traffic must be kept open at all times for Fire Department access. Load-in times may be restricted to accommodate other events.

 PARKING permits included with the rental are: 2 for the charter bus zone behind the building, 1 in the maintenance area, and 3 in the Mercer St. Garage. Large vehicles that do not need to be close to the building should be parked in the oversized parking stalls in Lot 2 across 5th Avenue North.

 ELECTRICAL: Power supplies available in the Mercer Arena:

 (2) 200A - 3P services (one at the southeast hallway, one at the southwest hallway)

 (1) 400A - 3P service (West hallway)

 All services are accessed through a power distribution terminal. Any electrical hook-up must be done by a Seattle Center Stage person or by a Washington State licensed electrician approved by Seattle Center and the work must comply with City of Seattle Department of Construction and Land Use codes.

 Lighting is controlled by breaker switches which turn off small groups of alternating fixtures to allow for different lighting levels throughout the building.

 FLOOR RESTRICTIONS: Floor Loading Guide:

 Traffic Load: Max. Vehicle Weight: 10,000#

 Max. Single Axle Limit 8,000#

 Max. Single Wheel Limit 4,000#

 Static Load: Maximum distributed uniformly over not less than 4'x4' area 500#/sq. ft.

 Load limits refer to pneumatic tired equipment only. Steel tread wheeled dollies are not allowed.

 All steel scaffolding and display support posts must have foot pads under vertical support posts.

 SIGNS AND POSTERS: Outside banners may be hung on the north outside face of the building by Seattle Center stage personnel. Any banners placed inside which require ladders or lifting devices must be hung by Seattle Center stage personnel. Nothing may be hung on finished wood, painted surfaces or windows by means of tape, tacks, nails, staples or mastic.

 There is a two line lighted readerboard on the front of the Mercer Arena (north side) and a six line lighted readerboard at 5th Ave. N. & Mercer St.; each line holds up to 14 characters. These are available for your use at no charge on the day(s) of your event or on any immediately preceding dates, as available.

 ACCESSIBILITY: The Mercer Arena is wheelchair and stroller accessible at the North entry and at the backstage entrance on the south end of the building. The restrooms located on the north end are wheelchair accessible.

 An assistive listening system is available in the building. Per the Americans with Disabilities Act, you must make this available to your guests. Arrangements must be made with your ESR in advance of the Event to have the system installed and activated and receivers available. In order to activate the Assistive Listening System either a Seattle Center sound system must be in use or a feed provided from an outside system. The system is a single channel infrared system.

 Guests should obtain a receiver and headset by requesting them from the Head Usher in the building. This person is located in the office at the bottom left of the entry stairs. If no Head Usher is working the event, the Door Attendant may be contacted for assistance.

 FIRST AID AND INCIDENT REPORTING: The Emergency Services Unit administers First Aid and takes incident reports. Contact the Customer Services Desk by means of the white courtesy phone located near the southwest loading door to report all incidents. They will radio an Emergency Services Unit officer.

 MERCER FORUM

 ROOM

 I

 II

 III

 IV

 V

 VI

 VII

 VIII

 Room Capacities:

 Theatre Style

 90

 75

 79

 102

 82

 112

 97

 89

 Classroom Style 4 per table

 60

 60

 44

 60

 56

 72

 68

 48

 Classroom Style 3 per table

 45

 45

 33

 45

 42

 54

 51

 36

 Banquet Style

 90

 90

 60

 90

 70

 100

 90

 60

 Characteristics

 Dimensions

 27'x40'

 27'x40'

 33'x23'

 33'x40'

 27'x36'

 36'x39'

 24'x51'

 23'x51'

 Square Footage

 1,080

 1,080

 1,000

 1,320

 970

 1,400

 1,220

 850

 Ceiling Height

 12'

 12'

 12'

 12'

 12'

 12'

 12'

 9'

 Floors

 carpet

 carpet

 carpet

 carpet

 carpet

 carpet

 carpet

 carpet

 Room Lighting

 incandescent

 w/dimmer

 incandescent

 w/dimmer

 incandescent

 w/dimmer

 incandescent

 w/dimmer

 incandescent

 w/dimmer

 incandescent

 w/dimmer

 incandescent

 w/dimmer

 incandescent

 Utility

 110v

 208v/3phase

 110v

 208v/3phase

 110v

 208v/3phase

 110v

 208v/3phase

 110v

 110v

 208v/3phase

 110v

 110v

 Included with License Fee

 Projection Screen

 NA

 NA

 NA

 NA

 6'x10'

 6'x10'

 6'x10'

 6'x10'

 Projection Table 2'x3'

 1

 1

 1

 1

 1

 1

 1

 1

 House Sound System

 yes

 yes

 yes

 yes

 yes

 yes

 yes

 yes

 Microphones

 4

 4

 4

 4

 3

 4

 4

 2

 Staging

 NA

 NA

 NA

 NA

 NA

 NA

 NA

 NA

 *Rooms I & II and Rooms III & IV are each separated by portable walls which pair can be retacted to make two large rooms.

 Classroom tables are 30" x 8' and seat 4 people each.

 Banquet tables are 6' rounds and seat 10 people each.

 Temporary telephone service is available in all rooms.

 One parking permit is available if all rooms are leased.

 For the safety of our guests, vehicular activity on the grounds is limited. Citations are issued for any vehicle which does not have a parking permit or 30 minute load/unload permit or which overstays the 30 minutes. Discuss your need for these with your ESR who will supply these permits where policy allows.

 Included with License Fee, subject to availability:

 Tables and chairs, except for areas set by a decorator

 and Washington State Flags

 Chalkboards

 Easels

 Lecterns, standing and table

 Portable coatracks

 Electrical service connections must be provided by Seattle Center staff or Washington State licensed electricians approved by Seattle Center, and be in compliance with City of Seattle DCLU codes.

 ALL SEATTLE CENTER EQUIPMENT MUST BE SET UP AND OPERATED BY SEATTLE CENTER STAFF.

 SET-UPS: Facilities are cleaned prior to each Event and set according to the plan written by the Event Service Representative (ESR) assigned to your Event. This plan is based on your Event requirements which are due from you to your ESR at least 15 days prior to the Event; additional charges apply if information is received later.

 One standard set-up per day is included with the license fee. Provision of an additional set-up on any day is subject to staff availability and additional labor charges.

 Exhibitors may carry in and set-up their own exhibits. If porter service is needed, a commercial decorator should be contacted.

 PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS: Additional Seattle Center staff may be required for sound operation, traffic guard or Admissions tasks. Any additional Seattle Center staff needed must be paid for a minimum of four hours. See Personnel Rates Addendum.

 SOUND: Additional sound equipment may be rented; this may require hiring a Seattle Center Sound Operator to be in attendance at the Event. Sound from Rooms may be patched through ceiling speakers into hallways and the lobby. Tape players may be operated by the Licensee once they are installed by a Seattle Center Sound Operator. Contact your ESR for sound arrangements. See Equipment Addendum for inventory and pricing.

 LOADING is from the south side of the building through the maintenance courtyard, or for hand carried or trucked items, the elevator on the north side of the building. One traffic lane must be kept open in the loading area at all times for Fire Department access. Load-in times should be staggered. Load/Unload permits can be provided by your ESR.

 SIGNS AND POSTERS: Push pins and tacks may be used on the soft walls in the rooms, but not tape or staples. Nothing may be hung on finished wood, or painted surfaces by means of tape, tacks, nails, staples or mastic. Stage technicians are required to hang anything inside or in front of the building which requires a lift or ladder to be used. Exceptions may be made inside the building for qualified decorators. There are no readerboards at Mercer Forum. Readerboards on the perimeter of the grounds may be rented subject to availability.

 ACCESSIBILITY: Wheelchairs and strollers can access Mercer Forum by elevator on the North side. Ramp to elevator is located under the "Opera House" readerboard on Mercer Street. Meeting rooms, telephones, and restrooms are wheelchair accessible.

 An assistive listening system is available for temporary installation. Per the Americans with Disabilities Act, you must make this available to your guests. Arrangements must be made with your ESR in advance of the Event to have the system installed and activated and receivers available. In order to activate the Assistive Listening System either a Seattle Center sound system must be in use or a feed provided from an outside system. The system is a single channel infrared system.

 Receivers can be distributed by a Seattle Center Admissions person if pre-arranged. Alternatively you may sign receivers out to guests. If the need for receivers is greater than the expectation, requests for additional receivers may be made on site by using the White Courtesy Phone located on the west side of the south hallway, across from the entrance to Room II.

 FIRST AID AND INCIDENT REPORTING: The Emergency Services Unit administers First Aid and is required to take incident reports. Staff at the Customer Information Desk will radio them in response to your call from the White Courtesy Phone located on the west side of the south hallway, across from the entrance to Room II.

 NORTHWEST ROOMS

 ROOM

 Alki

 Rainier

 Olympic

 Snoqualmie

 San Juan

 Lopez

 Fidalgo

 Shaw

 Orcas

 Room Capacities

 Theatre Style

 228

 720

 432

 629

 768

 312

 140

 180

 65

 Classroom Style, 4 per table

 348

 200

 300

 400

 180

 88

 120

 28

 Classroom Style, 3 per table

 261

 150

 225

 300

 135

 66

 90

 21

 Banquets 10 seats, 6' rounds

 250

 350

 200

 300

 400

 150

 90

 120

 30

 Characteristics

 Dimensions

 50'x60'

 66'x91'

 58'x70'

 47'x111'

 131'x51'

 62'x51'

 30'x51'

 39'x51'

 25'x37'

 Square Footage

 3,000

 6,006

 4,069

 5,217

 6,681

 3,162

 1,530

 1,989

 925

 Floors

 carpet/wood

 tile

 tile

 tile

 carpet

 carpet

 carpet

 carpet

 carpet

 Ceiling Height

 9' - 23'

 12'

 12'

 19'

 12'

 12'

 12'

 12'

 12'

 Room Lighting

 Main lights:

 Incandescent

 Generally flourescent and compact flourescent;

 Track lighting can be installed if Licensee provides lamps

 Included with License Fee

 Tables 8'x 30" w/ linens

 3

 5

 4

 5

 8

 3

 2

 2

 1

 Projection Table 2'x 3'

 1

 1

 1

 1

 1

 1

 1

 1

 1

 Built-in sound system

 yes

 yes

 yes

 yes

 yes

 yes

 yes

 yes

 yes

 Microphones

 3

 5

 4

 5

 8

 3

 2

 2

 1

 Platforms (6'x 8'x 8")

 10 or fewer at no labor charge

 3

 5

 5

 5

 8

 4

 1

 3

 0

 Bottled water dispenser w/

 7 oz. Cups (private events

 only)

 1

 3

 2

 3

 4

 2

 1

 1

 1

 Maximum Classroom Charge

 N/A

 $485

 $300

 $415

 $650

 $250

 $150

 $180

 $55

 *Alki Room dimensions and theatre style seating capacity are for the lower level only. Banquet capacity is based on 180 seats on the lower level plus 70 on the mezzanine level. Classroom style use is not recommended due to the low level lighting. The room is carpeted except for a 28'7"x24' wood dance floor in the center of the lower level.

 **The San Juan Room is made by opening walls between the Lopez, Fidalgo and Shaw Rooms. Entries in the above table for the San Juan Room are for these 3 rooms as one room. With rental of the San Juan Room, the additional resources of the Orcas Room may be included.

 Separate rental of the Orcas Room is only permitted in conjunction with rental of either the Olympic or Lopez Room.

 As available, chalkboards, easels, U.S. & Washington State flags, table or standing lecterns and chairs (up to the number theatre capacity of the room) are provided at no charge with the facility rental with the exception that no Seattle Center equipment is provided for use in areas set by a decorator.

 Banquet capacity is based on 10 guests per 6' round table. Banquet tables are included with the License Fee only when the Facility is rented primarily for a catered Event. Classroom tables

 (8' x 24") are available at $9.00/table for the run of the show, up to the maximum classroom table charge. Standard tables measure 8'x30". For each table beyond the number shown as included with the room, the charge is $9.00.

 For the safety of our guests, vehicular activity on the grounds is limited. Citations are issued for any vehicle without a parking or 30 minute load/unload permit or which overstays the 30 minutes. Your ESR will discuss requests for permits and supply them where policy allows. When all Northwest Rooms are rented, one parking permit is included with the License Fee. ALL SEATTLE CENTER EQUIPMENT MUST BE SET UP AND OPERATED BY SEATTLE CENTER STAFF.

 SET-UPS: Facilities are cleaned prior to each Event and set according to the plan written by the Event Service Representative (ESR) assigned to your Event. This plan is based on the Event requirements which are due from you at least 15 days prior to the Event; additional charges apply if information is received later. One standard set-up per day is included with the license fee. Provision of an additional set-up on any day is subject to staff availability and additional labor charges. Exhibitors may carry in their own material and set up their exhibits. If porter service is needed, a commercial decorator should be contacted. Care needs to be taken to keep doors closed when not in use for Move-In/Out periods in order to maintain the temperature balance in the entire complex.

 PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS: Additional staff may be required, i.e., sound operators to run equipment, stage technicians if using more than 10 stage pieces, admissions personnel for event security or for traffic control if there is heavy vehicular activity, door attendants and Seattle Police for dances, or peer security for crowd control. The numbers of such personnel and whether they may be hired through Seattle Center or from outside sources will be determined by your ESR based on union regulations and Seattle Center policy. See Personnel Rates Addendum for rates that will be charged for their service.

 SOUND: There is a built-in sound system with ceiling speakers in each room. Sound can be patched into the lobby or any of the rooms except Alki (which has a separate system). Additional sound equipment is available for rental; Seattle Center Sound staff are required to operate all but tape players we install. See Equipment & Services Addendum for available inventory and current prices.

 ELECTRICAL: 120V perimeter wall outlets are located on perimeter walls in each room.

 Each room except Orcas and Alki Rooms has utility panels that contain:

 (2) duplex 20A - 2P, 120V services (no tie in required);

 (2) 30A - 2P - 3W, 250V services;

 (2) 30A - 3P - 5W, 250V services;

 (1) 60A - 4P - 5W, 120/208V service; and

 (1) 100A - 4P - 5W, 120/208V service

 All services, except the first, are isolated grounds and must be tied into with a locking type receptacle and power distribution terminal. These connections must be made by a Washington State licensed electrician approved by Seattle Center and their work must comply with City of Seattle Department of Construction and Land Use Codes. Each panel is limited to 150 AMP use, each room to 225 AMP except the Fidalgo and Shaw Rooms which must share a 225 AMP maximum service.

 FLOOR RESTRICTIONS: For protection of the tile floors, only certain types of tape are permitted. See your ESR for a list of acceptable tapes.

 Floor Loading Guide: Republican St. Pedestrian Entry,

 Upper Courtyard & Shaw Room Other NW Rooms

 Traffic Load: Maximum Vehicle Weight: 5,000# 10,000#

 Maximum Axle Limit 4,000# 8,000#

 Maximum Wheel Limit 2,000# 4,000#

 Static Load: Maximum Limit* 250#/sq ft 500#/sq ft

 *Max. limit must be uniformly distributed over not less than a 4'x4' area.

 All steel scaffolding and display supports must have foot pads under vertical posts. Load limits refer to pneumatic tired equipment only. Steel tread wheeled dollies shall not be allowed.

 NO VEHICLES ARE PERMITTED IN THE ENTRY WAY BETWEEN THE SHAW & SNOQUALMIE ROOMS. Should this restriction be disregarded by you or your exhibitors, a fine may be assessed.

 SIGNS AND POSTERS: There are bulletin boards outside of rooms for your use. Inside, push pins and tacks, but no staples or tape, may be used on the carpeted divider walls in the Shaw, Lopez and Fidalgo Rooms and on all bulletin board walls. S-hooks attached to the perimeter ledge on the upper portion of the walls can be used to support heavier items. Nothing may be hung on finished wood, painted surfaces or windows by means of tape, tacks, nails, staples or mastic. Outside banners and signs may be hung only with prior approval of the Director.

 There are no readerboards at the Northwest Rooms; readerboards on the perimeter of the grounds may be rented subject to availability.

 ACCESSIBILITY: All rooms in the complex are wheelchair and stroller accessible. There are wheelchair accessible restrooms and public telephones in the lobby area between the Rainier and Olympic Rooms. Restrooms in the Alki and Snoqualmie Rooms are also wheelchair accessible.

 Assistive listening systems are installed in each room except the Alki and Orcas Rooms for which portable systems are available. Per the Americans With Disabilities Act, you must make these available to your guests. Arrangements should be made with your ESR in advance of the Event to activate the system and have receivers available. Receivers are picked up by your guests from the Customer Services Desk at which they will need to leave a picture ID such as a driver's license, which will be exchanged for the returned receiver after the Event. Alternatively, you may make arrangements in advance with your ESR to pick up receivers for use by your guests. Use the white courtesy phone to request additional receivers if you underestimate the number needed.

 FIRST AID AND INCIDENT REPORTING: The Emergency Services Unit will administer First Aid and take incident reports. Contact the Customer Services Desk by means of the white courtesy phone in the lobby between the Rainier and Olympic Rooms or in either the Snoqualmie or Alki Rooms, to report all incidents. They will radio an Emergency Services Unit officer.

 OPERA HOUSE

 See Opera House Information Sheet or Opera House Production Guide for theater dimensions, seating capacities, and sound and stage equipment available in the Opera House.

 PERFORMANCE HALL AUXILIARY AREAS

 Total Seats

 With Wheelchair

 Maximum

 Number of

 Ballet Room

 Opera Room

 Room

 203-204**

 Locations

 Wheelchair

 Room Capacities:

 Total Seats

 Maximized

 Locations

 Theatre Style

 175

 175

 175

 Main Floor*

 1,728

 1,723

 19

 Banquets

 100

 100

 n/a

 Boxes & Lodges

 676

 660

 12

 Characteristics

 2nd Balcony

 694

 694

 0

 Dimensions

 22' x 77'

 22' x 77'

 18' x 83'

 Totals:

 3,099

 3,077

 31

 Square Footage

 1,694

 1,694

 1,494

 Ceiling Height

 10' 1"

 10' 1"

 8' 7"

 Floors

 Carpet

 Carpet

 Carpet

 Room Lighting

 Fluorescent/

 Incandescent

 Fluorescent/

 Incandescent

 Fluorescent

 Main Floor totals include 62 portable plush chairs and 2 wheelchair locations on the orchestra pit elevators. There are 28 transfer seats on the Main Floor.

 As available, U.S. and Washington State flags, easels, chalkboards, and both table & standing lecterns are provided at no charge with the facility rental.

 Room 203-204 is not ADA accessible

 Tables are 8' x 30" and may be rented at $9.00 per table for the run of the show. Paper covers for tables are $2.00 each.

 Banquet capacity is based on 10 guests per 6' round table. Banquet tables are included with the License Fee. Linen service must be arranged directly with you caterer.

 All Seattle Center equipment must be set up and operated by Seattle Center staff.

 SET-UPS: Facilities are cleaned prior to each Event and set according to the plan written by the Event Service Representative (ESR) assigned to your Event. This plan is based on the Event requirements which are due from you at least 15 days prior to the Event; additional charges may apply if information is received later. One standard set-up per day is included with the license fee. Provision of an additional set-up or cleaning on any day is subject to staff availability and additional labor charges.

 PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS: Personnel included in facility license fee is an ESR for coordination of Seattle Center services.

 Additional staff will be required. Sound or stage technicians are needed to set up and remove equipment and to operate it during the Event. Admissions personnel are required for Event security or crowd control, or as ushers or door attendants. For some Events additional security in the form of Seattle Police or peer group security may be required. The numbers of such personnel and whether they may be hired through Seattle Center or from outside sources will be determined by your ESR based on Seattle Center practices. See Personnel Rates Addendum for rates which will be charged for their service.

 SOUND: There is a minimal built-in sound system with front of house speaker clusters. Additional sound equipment is available for rental. Seattle Center Sound operators are required to attend to all such equipment during the Event. See Opera House Information sheet or Opera House Production Guide for available inventory.

 STAGE: See Opera House Information sheet or Opera House Production Guide for stage and lighting specifications. Stage technicians are required to set up and remove and/or hang anything on or over stage.

 CATERING: All catering (food or beverage offered free of charge to event attendees) must be provided by a caterer approved by Seattle Center. Ask your ESR for a current list of approved caterers.

 FOOD CONCESSIONS: The Seattle Center food & beverage concessionaire, Volume Services America, has the exclusive right to sell food and beverages. For further information contact Volume Services America at (206) 448-9319.

 MERCHANDISE / PROGRAM & NOVELTY CONCESSIONS: The Seattle Center program & novelty concessionaire, Facility Merchandising Incorporated (FMI), has the exclusive right to sell merchandise, programs and novelties. For further information contact FMI at (206)440-9257.

 TICKETING for Spectator Events in the Opera House is under exclusive contract with Ticketmaster for both advance and on-site ticketing. See Ticketing Addendum for further information.

 LOADING for shows is from Mercer Street on the north side of the Opera House. Stage door is 90" wide x 15'6" high. Loading dock has side-by-side loading capability and is 48" high. For the safety of our guests, vehicular activity on the grounds is limited. Citations are issued to any vehicle which does not have a parking or 30 minute load/unload permit or which overstays the 30 minute limit. Discuss your need for access to the grounds with your ESR who will supply these permits where policy allows.

 PARKING: Included with the facility rental are seven parking permits per day; five for the Mercer St. Garage and two reserved spaces next to the loading dock. Large vehicles that do not need to be close to the building should be parked in the oversized parking stalls in Fifth Avenue Parking Lot (Fifth Avenue & Republican Street).

 INSURANCE: At least eleven days prior to the event, proof of Commercial General Liability insurance form (CG 00 01) is required. Please see the Opera House Production Guide or discuss with your Event Sales Rep the established minimum coverages.

 PROMOTION: There is a two-sided lighted readerboard in front of the Opera House on Mercer Street. Each side has three lines, up to fourteen characters each line. Readerboard is available for your use at no charge on the day(s) of your event.

 Event information submitted by you can be provided to the public by telephone 16 hours per day, 7 days a week via Customer Service staff, and 24 hours per day, 7 days a week via recorded event telephone line and on the Seattle Center website (www.seattlecenter.com).

 Event posters submitted by you can be placed by Seattle Center staff in on-ground announcement kiosks. Please discuss all promotion arrangements with your ESR.

 ACCESSIBILITY: The Opera House is wheelchair- and stroller- accessible. The restrooms located on the north end are wheelchair- accessible.

 An assistive listening system is available in the building. Per the Americans with Disabilities Act, you must make this available to your guests. Arrangements must be made with your ESR in advance of the Event to have the system installed and activated and receivers available. In order to activate the Assistive Listening System either a Seattle Center sound system must be in use or a feed provided from an outside system. The system is a single channel infrared system.

 Guests should obtain a receiver and headset by requesting them from the Head Usher in the building. This person is located in the office at the bottom left of the entry stairs. If no Head Usher is working the event, the Door Attendant may be contacted for assistance.

 FIRST AID AND INCIDENT REPORTING: The Emergency Services Unit administers First Aid and takes incident reports. Contact the Customer Services Desk by means of the white courtesy phone located near the southwest loading door to report all incidents. They will radio an Emergency Services Unit officer.

 SEATTLE CENTER PAVILION

 Room A

 Room B

 Est. Room Capacities:

 Theatre Style

 800

 450

 Classroom Style, 4 per table

 448

 248

 Classroom Style, 3 per table

 336

 186

 Banquets

 500

 300

 Characteristics

 Dimensions

 147' x 57'

 78' x 68'

 Approx. Square Footage

 8,379

 5,304

 Ceiling Height

 15'-8" to 20'-0"

 15'-8"

 Floors

 Tile

 Concrete

 Room Lighting

 Flourescent & Track

 Flourescent & Track

 Included with License Fee

 Tables 8' x 30" *

 5

 4

 Chairs *

 Max Set

 Max Set

 Projection Table 2'x3'

 1

 1

 House Sound

 yes

 (via. portable speaker system)

 yes

 (via. portable speaker system)

 Microphones

 5

 4

 Portable Walls (10'x10')

 24

 None

 These tables and chairs are not available for use in

 areas set by a decorator.

 As available, U.S. and Washington State flags, easels, chalkboards, and both table & standing lecterns are provided at no charge with the facility rental.

 Banquet capacity is based on 10 guests per 6' round table. Banquet tables are included with the License Fee if the primary purpose of the rental is for a catered Event. No linen service is available. The charge for tables in excess of the number shown as included with the License Fee is $9.00 per 8' x 30" table, $9.00 per 6' round table.

 For the safety of our guests, vehicular activity on the grounds is limited. Citations are issued to any vehicle which does not have a parking permit or 30 minute load/unload permit or which overstays the 30 minute limit. Discuss your need for access to the grounds with your Event Service Representative, who will supply these permits where policy allows.

 ALL SEATTLE CENTER EQUIPMENT MUST BE SET UP AND OPERATED BY SEATTLE CENTER STAFF.

 SET-UPS: Facilities are cleaned prior to each Event and set according to the plan written by the Event Service Representative (ESR) assigned to your Event. This plan is based on the Event requirements which are due from you at least 15 days prior to the Event; additional charges apply if information is received later than this.

 One standard set-up per day is included with the license fee. Provision of an additional set-up on any day is subject to staff availability and additional labor charges.

 Exhibitors may carry in their own material and set up their exhibits. If porter service is needed, a commercial decorator should be contacted.

 PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS: Depending on the nature of the Event, additional staff may be required. Sound or stage technicians may be needed to set up and remove equipment and to operate it during the Event. Admissions Guard(s) are required for traffic control during any time that an Event generates heavy vehicular activity. Other Admissions personnel may be required for Event security or crowd control, or as door attendants for dances. For some Events additional security in the form of Seattle Police or peer group security may be required. The numbers of such personnel and whether they may be hired through Seattle Center or from outside sources will be determined by your ESR based on union regulations and Seattle Center policy. See Personnel Rates Addendum for the rates which will be charged for these services.

 SOUND: Portable sound equipment is available for rental. Seattle Center Sound operators are required to operate all equipment we install, except tape and cd players. See Equipment Addendum for inventory and current prices.

 STAGE: Stage platforms are rented by the unit and are available in various heights: 8", 16", 24", 32" and 48". Units are 4'x 8' or 6'x 8'. See Equipment Addendum. A stage consisting of 10 or fewer pieces will be set at no labor charge. Stage technicians may be required if there are banners to be hung either inside or in front of the building. Theatrical lighting must be ground supported. The ceiling is not weight bearing and supports no rigging.

 ELECTRICAL: 120V outlets are located on perimeter walls.

 Additional power available:

 (1) 200A 3P, 120/208V (Service is in panel room located in Seattle Center Pavilion Room B)

 All services are accessed through a power distribution terminal. Any electrical hook-ups must be done by a Washington State licensed electrician approved by Seattle Center and the work must comply with City of Seattle Department of Construction and Land Use Codes.

 FLOOR RESTRICTIONS: For protection of the tile floors, only certain types of tape are permitted. See your ESR for a list of acceptable tapes.

 Floor Loading Guide:

 Traffic Load: Max. Vehicle Weight: 5,000#

 Max. Single Axle Limit 4,000#

 Max. Single Wheel Limit 2,000#

 Static Load: Maximum distributed uniformly over not less than 4'x4' area 250#/sq ft

 Load limits refer to pneumatic tired equipment only. Steel tread wheeled dollies are not allowed.

 All steel scaffolding and display supports must have foot pads under the vertical posts.

 SIGNS AND POSTERS: Nothing may be hung on finished wood, painted surfaces or windows by means of tape, tacks, nails, staples or mastic.

 There is one lighted Reader board on the east side of the building that is included with the rental of the Facility* on the days for which you have rented it, or if no other Licensee is using the Facility and the readerboard is available, on immediately preceding days. This Readerboard has two lines and holds 14 characters per line.

 * Reader board is included when Licensee rents both Seattle Center Pavilion A & B. If both Seattle Center Pavilion A & B are rented by different Licensees, then the reader board is made available for Seattle Center Pavilion Room A. If Seattle Center Pavilion B is rented and Seattle Center Pavilion Room A is vacant, then the reader board is made available for Seattle Center Pavilion Room B.

 ACCESSIBILITY: The Seattle Center Pavilion is wheelchair and stroller accessible at all entry doors. There are wheelchair accessible restrooms in the lobby.

 An assistive listening system is available for temporary installation. Per the Americans with Disabilities Act, you must make this available to your guests. Arrangements must be made with your ESR in advance of the Event to have the system installed and activated and receivers available. In order to activate the Assistive Listening System either a Seattle Center sound system must be in use or a feed provided from an outside system. The system is a single channel infrared system.

 Receivers are signed out by your guests at the Customer Service Desk (open 7:00am-11:00pm daily) at which they will be asked to leave a picture ID such as a driver's license. This will be exchanged for the returned receiver after the Event. Alternatively, you may make arrangements in advance with your ESR to pick up receivers for use by your guests. Use the white courtesy phone located on the back wall of the coat rack(between the restroom entries) to request additional receivers if you underestimate the number needed.

 FIRST AID AND INCIDENT REPORTING: The Emergency Services Unit administers First Aid and takes incident reports. Contact the Customer Service Desk by means of the white courtesy phone to report all incidents. They will radio an Emergency Services officer.

 NORTHWEST FOLKLIFE CONTRACT, EXHIBIT C

 SEATTLE CENTER FACILITY ADDENDA

 Folklife Exhibit C.doc

 1 of 19

 September 26, 2001

 EXHIBIT D

 SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE OF

 OFFICE SPACE AT SEATTLE CENTER

 1. Office Space Provided. Provided Licensee is not in default of any of its obligations under this License Agreement, Licensee shall have the right to use, as partial consideration for this Agreement, the Office Space described below:

 A portion of Lot 6, Block 36, D.T. Denny's Third Addition to North Seattle, according to plat recorded in Vol. 1 of Plats, Page 145, Records of King County, Washington, which portion is currently identified as Storage Unit 4 and Suites 35-37, 158 Thomas St. (Blue Spruce Bldg.).

 2. Duration of Use. Licensee shall have the right to use the Office Space for the duration of this Agreement, as the same may be stated, extended or terminated as provided herein.

 3. Use. Licensee shall use the Office Space for administrative purposes ancillary to Licensee's production of the annual Northwest Folklife Festival ("Festival") and for storage. Licensee shall not use the Premises for any other purpose without Director's prior, written consent.

 4. Utility Services.

 a. Extent of City Service: The City shall provide basic utility service including but not limited to electricity, sewer, water, and heating for the Office Space.

 b. Limitation on City Liability Regarding Utility Service: The City shall not be liable for the interruption of any utility service unless such interruption was caused by the City's intentional wrongful act.

 c. Special Services and Facilities Subject to Prior City Approval, and at Licensee's Expense. Licensee, directly or through a third party, may install, secure, maintain and repair, at no expense to the City, any utility service necessary for Licensee's operations and its use of the Office Space that is not provided or maintained by the City. Any special utility or waste disposal facility, item of equipment, or service beyond what the City provides to the Office Space, may be installed only in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Director and other appropriate City officials, in writing, in advance of such installation. Licensee shall not install in the Office Space any fixture, furnishing, or trade equipment that exceeds the capacity of any utility or waste facility for such location. Licensee shall pay, before delinquency, all fees and charges for the installation, change, and relocation of any point or means of service by any utility or waste line or system. Licensee shall make arrangements with the utility service provider for the separate metering, where possible, of such service and the direct billing to the Licensee for the delivery of such service.

 522.. Surrender of Office Space; Holding Over.

 a. Surrender & Delivery: Upon the expiration or termination date of this Agreement, whichever is earlier, Licensee shall surrender the Office Space and promptly deliver to the Director all keys Licensee, and any of its officers, agents, and employees have to the Office Space or any other part of the Seattle Center.

 b. Removal of Licensee's Property: Prior to the expiration date of this Agreement, or in the event this Agreement is terminated, within fifteen (15) days after the termination date, whichever is earlier, Licensee shall remove, at its sole expense, all trade equipment and personal property owned or installed by Licensee in, on, or from the Office Space. In performing such removal work, Licensee shall take due care to not unreasonably injure or damage the Office Space, and shall make such repairs to the Office Space as shall be necessary to restore the same to their condition as of the commencement date of this Agreement, ordinary wear and tear excepted.

 c. Storage of Licensee's Property: If Licensee fails to timely remove its personal property from the Office Space, the City may, but shall not be required to remove such material and store the same, all at Licensee's expense; and if the City removes or arranges for the storage of such material, the City shall be reimbursed its costs therefor, including any administrative costs, which reimbursement shall constitute a claim upon Licensee or, at the City's option, may be invoiced to Licensee or deducted from the Damage and Loss Deposit, if any, provided pursuant to Subsection 2.F. hereof.

 d. Hold-over Use & Occupancy of Office Space: If Licensee holds over the Office Space after the date this Agreement expires or is terminated, the resulting use and occupancy shall be on a monthly basis, during which time Licensee shall be bound by all of the provisions of this Agreement pertaining to use of the Office Space. In addition, Licensee shall pay Seattle Center rent monthly, in advance, equal to the then-current nonprofit rent rate per square foot, for comparable Seattle Center Office Space.

 e. No Claim for Removal: In no event shall Licensee make any claim or demand upon the City nor shall the City be liable for any inconvenience, annoyance, disturbance, or loss of business or any other damage suffered by Licensee arising out of removal operations under this Agreement.

 f. Inspection Upon Surrender of Office Space: Immediately following the vacating of the Office Space and the surrender of the same to the City, a representative of Licensee shall inspect the Office Space with the Director to determine the condition of the Office Space and whether any damages should be assessed against Licensee. The Director shall summarize the results of such inspection on an Office Space inspection report, a copy of which shall be provided to Licensee.

 Folklife Exhibit D.doc

 1 of 1

 September 26, 2001

 EXHIBIT E

 NORTHWEST FOLKLIFE CONTRACT

 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS

 Before undertaking any work under this Agreement, Licensee shall obtain and shall thereafter maintain continuously at all times during the term hereof, obtain and maintain continuously, at no expense to the City, evidence of a policy or policies of insurance as enumerated below.

 1. Insurance Coverage:

 A. Commercial General Liability Insurance: A policy of commercial general liability insurance, written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form (CG 00 01), including all the usual coverages known as:

 - Premises/Operations Liability

 - Products/Completed Operations

 - Personal/Advertising Injury

 - Contractual Liability

 - Independent Contractors Liability

 - Stop Gap or Employers Contingent Liability

 - Fire Damage Legal

 - Liquor Liability

 - Per event aggregate.

 Such policy or policies must provide the following minimum coverage:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage

 $2,000,000 General Aggregate

 $2,000,000 Products & Completed Operations Aggregate

 $1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury

 $1,000,000 Each Occurrence

 $ 100,000 Fire Damage

 Stop Gap/Employers Liability:

 $1,000,000 Each Accident

 $1,000,000 Disease - Policy Limit

 $1,000,000 Disease - Each Employee

 Each policy shall be endorsed (by a blanket endorsement or otherwise) to include The City of Seattle, its employees and agents as additional insureds; shall include a "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests" clause, indicating essentially that, except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, the insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought; and shall provide that its limits of liability shall not be cancelled without forty-five (45) calendar days prior written notice to the City, except for cases of non-payment of premiums, in which case prior notice shall not be less than ten (10) calendar days. In addition, Licensee's insurance shall be primary and non-contributory to any coverage maintained by the City. The limits of such insurance shall not, however, limit the liability of Licensee hereunder. Licensee shall promptly notify the City when it becomes aware of any material reduction in the aggregate limits of any insurance coverage required under this Agreement.

 B. Business Automobile Liability Insurance: A policy of Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles written on an insurance industry standard form (CA 00 01) or equivalent.

 Such policy or policies must provide the following minimum limit:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage -

 $ 1,000,000 per accident

 C. Excess Insurance: A policy of Excess Insurance above the primary general liability and Business Auto Liability policies that will provide a total limit of insurance of $2,000,000. The excess policy must be at a minimum as broad as the primary policies.

 D. Property Insurance: For so long as this Agreement shall be in effect and Licensee occupies the Office Space, Licensee shall secure and maintain, at no cost or expense to the City, one or more policies of Property Insurance covering Licensee's furniture, fixtures, equipment and all other improvements, written on an "All Risk" basis in an amount equal to replacement cost thereof. Such insurance shall protect against (a) loss from the perils of fire and other risks of direct physical loss (including earthquake and flood damage), not less broad than provided by the insurance industry standard "Causes of Loss - Special Form (CP 10 30)"; and (b) loss or damage from water damage or sprinkler systems now or hereafter installed in or about the building in which the Office Space is located. Under such insurance, any loss payment shall be made payable to the City, which shall hold the same in trust for the rebuilding, repairing, replacing or restoring of the Office Space, including all improvements, additions and alterations thereto.

 E. Worker's Compensation: Worker's Compensation as required by applicable state law in the jurisdictions in which Licensee is doing business.

 2. Claims Made Form and Deductibles: If any insurance policy is issued on a "claims made" basis, the retroactive date shall be prior to or coincident with the effective date of this Agreement. The policy shall state that coverage is "claims made," and state the retroactive date. The Licensee shall either maintain "claims made" forms coverage for a minimum of three years following the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, providing the City with a Renewal Certificate of Insurance annually; purchase an extended reporting period ("tail"); or execute another form of guarantee acceptable to the City to assure financial responsibility for liability for services performed.

 Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed on the required certificate and is subject to approval by the City. The cost of any claim payments falling within the deductible shall be the responsibility of Licensee.

 3. Evidence of Insurance: Licensee shall provide the City's Risk Manager and the Director with the following documents as evidence of insurance coverage:

 * A copy of the policy's declarations pages, showing the Insuring Company, policy effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements.

 * A copy of the endorsement naming The City of Seattle as an Additional Insured, showing the policy number, and signed by an authorized representative of the insurance company on Form CG2026 (ISO) or comparable.

 * A copy of the "Endorsements Form List" to the policy or policies showing endorsements issued on the policy, and including any company-specific or manuscript endorsements.

 * A copy of an endorsement stating that the coverage provided by this policy to the City, or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing at least forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City of Seattle.

 * A copy of A "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests" clause (if not provided on CG0001 form, indicating essentially that - except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, this insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought (Commercial General Liability & Business Automobile Liability Insurance). The City reserves the right to obtain a copy of any policy required by this Agreement, including all forms and endorsements.

 4. Insurance Policy Rating: All policies shall be issued by a company rated A-: VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington (or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines broker), and shall be subject to approval by the City.

 5. Self-Insurance: If Licensee is self-insured for any of the risks for which insurance is required, it shall so indicate in a letter signed by an authorized person, indicating whether the self- insurance is actuarially funded and the fund limits, along with an original standard form Accord Certificate of Liability Insurance signed by a licensed insurance agent or broker authorized to do business in the State of Washington evidencing excess coverage required to meet the requirements of this Agreement. All self- insurance is subject to the City's prior approval and the City reserves the right to request documentation in addition to that stated in this paragraph to determine the acceptability of any self-insurance.

 6. Sub-Licensees: Licensee shall ensure that each of its sub- licensees names The City of Seattle, its employees and agents as additional insureds on any liability and property insurance maintained with regard to the project; and that all insurance policies shall be made available to the City for inspection upon request.

 Folklife Exhibit E.doc

 1 of 1

 September 26, 2001

```
