

********

**Council Bill Number: 113831**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120542**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the P-Patch Program; authorizing the purchase of real property at 7012 12th Avenue NE in Seattle from the Seattle Housing Authority for community garden purposes; authorizing the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods to enter into a Purchase and Sale Agreement and to accept a deed; and ratifying and confirming prior actions.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 1, 2001
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 8, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 8, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 10, 2001
   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Sustainability and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** P-PATCH-PROGRAM, SALES, SEATTLE-HOUSING-AUTHORITY, ROOSEVELT

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _______________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the P-Patch Program; authorizing the purchase of real property at 7012 12th Avenue NE in Seattle from the Seattle Housing Authority for community garden purposes; authorizing the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods to enter into a Purchase and Sale Agreement and to accept a deed; and ratifying and confirming prior actions.

 WHEREAS, the Seattle City Council, pursuant to Ordinance 120128, approved funding from the Opportunity Fund directed to the Department of Neighborhoods in the amount of One Hundred Eighty Thousand Dollars ($180,000) for the Froula Park P-Patch acquisition; and

 WHEREAS, the property located at 7012 12th Avenue NE, owned by the Seattle Housing Authority for scattered site housing purposes, has been vacant for over two years and is in disrepair; and

 WHEREAS, on July 21, 2000, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development approved the Seattle Housing Authority's application to dispose of said property with the proceeds to be used to acquire new scattered site rental units; and

 WHEREAS, the fair market value of the property was determined by an independent appraiser to be One Hundred Eighty Thousand Dollars ($180,000) as of October 22, 1999; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Neighborhoods has determined that the property is suitable for the location of the Froula Park P-Patch community garden; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of the Department of Neighborhoods is hereby authorized, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, to enter into a Purchase and Sale Agreement based upon the form attached hereto as Attachment 1, with such revisions as such Director shall deem appropriate, for the purchase of the following described real property in King County, Washington:

 Lots 25 and 26, Block 3, Pitner's Third Division of the Green Lake Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat recorded in volume 5 of plats, page 4, records of King County, Washington, EXCEPT the east 8 feet thereof deeded for alley,

 having a street address of 7012 12th Avenue NE, Seattle, WA 98115 ("Property"), from the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, for the price of One Hundred Eighty Thousand Dollars ($180,000). The Director of the Department of Neighborhoods is authorized to execute and deliver such other documents and take such other actions as shall be reasonably necessary or appropriate to close the transaction, and to accept on behalf of the City a Statutory Warranty Deed by which the Property will be conveyed to the City.

 Section 2. The Property, when acquired, shall be under the management and control of the Department of Neighborhoods for the purposes of establishing and maintaining a community garden. Subject to the issuance of such permits as may be required, the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods or his designee is authorized to cause or permit the removal of any existing structures and such other modifications as may be necessary or appropriate for the intended use.

 Section 3. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2001.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2001.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2001.

 ___________________________________________

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Form of Purchase and Sale Agreement

 Exhibit A: Legal Description

 DH/HRT

 08/31/01

 RooseveltOrd.doc

 (Ver. 7)

 AGREEMENT FOR PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE

 THIS AGREEMENT is entered into as of the last date of execution hereof by HOUSING AUTHORITY of the CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington public body corporate and politic ("Seller"), and THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("Purchaser"), a first class city of the State of Washington.

RECITALS:

 Purchaser desires to purchase from Seller and Seller desires to sell to Purchaser a parcel of real property consisting of approximately six thousand seven hundred twenty (6720) square feet of land, located in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, as described on the attached Exhibit A, together with all improvements, rights, easements and appurtenances located thereon and appertaining thereto (the "Property"), in consideration of the Purchase Price, as hereinafter defined, and the other terms, covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement.

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of and in reliance on the parties' mutual promises and undertakings and the mutual benefits to be derived from this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:

 1. Sale of Property. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Purchaser shall purchase from Seller and Seller shall sell and convey to Purchaser the Property.

 2. Purchase Price. The total purchase price for the Property ("Purchase Price") shall be One Hundred Eighty Thousand Dollars ($180,000.00, all in cash at Closing, as defined in Paragraph 8 below.

 3. Title; Investigation, Study and Survey; Repair Obligation .

 (a) "Marketable Title" to be Provided by Seller: Seller shall furnish Purchaser with Marketable Title to the Property. "Marketable Title" shall mean title insurable by Pacific Northwest Title Insurance Company, Inc. (the "Title Company") at its standard rates, by the form of policy described below, without exception except for standard exceptions appearing in such form of policy and governmental charges not yet due and payable. Seller, at its sole cost and expense, has obtained from the Title Company, under Order Number 401130, a title commitment dated March 7, 2000 for the issuance of a standard coverage 1992 ALTA form of Owner's Policy of Title Insurance covering the Property (the "Title Commitment"). Seller shall cause special exception no. 3 thereon to be duly released of record on or before the Closing Date.

 (b) License Granted for Entry onto Property for Inspection, Study and Survey Purposes: Seller grants to Purchaser and its officers, employees, designated consultants and contractors a license to enter the Property for the purpose of completing an inspection, study and survey of the Property at Purchaser's expense to determine the physical condition of the Property and if the Property contains any Hazardous Materials. The license granted in this Subparagraph 3(b) shall expire on the date of Closing or the date this Agreement is terminated, whichever is earlier. Any earlier revocation of the license by Seller shall be a default by Seller under this Agreement.

 (c) Purchaser's Property Repair Obligation: If Purchaser does not purchase the Property, Purchaser covenants and agrees to repair any damage to the Property occasioned by the entry upon the Property by Purchaser or its agents or the conduct of any inspection, study or survey pursuant to Subparagraph 3(b) by or for Purchaser, provided that Seller gives written notice to Purchaser of the damage within ten (10) days after termination of this Agreement. Such repair shall put the Property in a condition as good or better than the condition in which the Property existed immediately prior to initial entry upon the Property by or for Purchaser pursuant to the license granted herein, provided that no changes in condition shall have occurred other than those occasioned by the entry upon the Property by Purchaser or its agents or the conduct of any inspection, study or survey pursuant to Subparagraph 3(b) by or for Purchaser. This repair obligation shall survive the date of Closing and the termination of this Agreement.

 4. Representations and Warranties of Purchaser. Purchaser represents and warrants to and agrees with Seller as follows:

 (a) Purchaser is a municipal corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Washington and has the power to own its property and assets.

 (b) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Purchaser; constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of Purchaser; and is enforceable against Purchaser in accordance with its terms.

 5. Conditions Precedent to Performance of Agreement by Purchaser.

 (a) Purchaser shall be obligated to complete this transaction only upon the written waiver by Purchaser or the satisfaction of each of the following conditions precedent:

 (i) Seller is able to convey Marketable Title to the Property, and the Title Company is committed to issue to Purchaser a standard coverage 1992 ALTA form of Owner's Policy of title insurance, for the Title Company's usual premium, which shall be paid by Seller, in an amount equal to the Purchase Price, showing no exceptions except as expressly allowed under Subparagraph 3(a) above.

 (ii) The representations and warranties made by Seller in this Agreement are true on and as of the date of Closing with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on and as of the date of Closing.

 (iii) On or before ____________, 2001, Purchaser shall have received satisfactory evidence, gathered at its own expense except as provided in Subparagraph 5(a)(iv)-(v) hereof, that the physical condition of the Property can accommodate the use of the Property as a community garden and that the Property does not contain any Hazardous Materials in excess of applicable federal or state standards, or that require removal under any applicable laws, or that reasonably may impair the use of the Property for such purpose.

 (iv) On or before ___________, 2001, Seller shall have provided to Purchaser a complete copy of each of the following to the extent they are in Seller's possession, custody or control: soils reports; structural reports; surveys; information relating to any proposal or commitment by Seller to alter any existing improvement or structure or to any construct any additional improvement or structure on the Property, or to dedicate any portion of the Property to any governmental entity; every drawing of the Property showing any easement, encumbrance or encroachment by any other person or entity for the benefit of the Seller's adjacent property any other property; and any other document relating to the Property. For the purposes of this subparagraph, the term "in Seller's possession, custody or control" means in the care, custody or control of Seller or any of Seller's officers, employees, attorneys, consultants or agents.

 (v) On or before ____________, 2001, Seller shall have provided to Purchaser a copy of any environmental report in its possession or control relating to the Property or any adjacent property owned by Seller.

 (vi) The legislative authority of The City of Seattle shall have authorized, by ordinance, execution of this Agreement and the conveyance contemplated herein, and such ordinance shall have become effective.

 (b) For the purposes of this Agreement, the following terms and phrases are defined as specified below:

 (i) "Document" means and includes information stored in any form; any written, recorded or graphic matter, however produced or reproduced; and copies and drafts thereof. Without limiting the foregoing, "document" includes correspondence; telegrams; memoranda; reports; notes; drafts; minutes; contracts; agreements; books; records; vouchers; invoices; diaries; calendar notes; logs; computer print-outs; e-mails; voice mails; memory programs; information stored in any data processing or word processing system, in whatever form; back-up materials of any kind; card files; press clippings; newspapers or newsletters; sworn or unsworn statements of employees; lists; audits; tables of organization; monthly or other periodic statements; journals; notices; affidavits; court papers; appointment books; minutes or records of conferences or telephone calls; brochures; written reports or opinions of investigators or experts; status reports; drawings; charts; photographs; negatives; or tape recordings.

 (ii) "Environmental report" means and includes but is not limited to any document relating to the physical condition of the Property or any adjacent property or the presence or release on, under, or from the Property or any adjacent property of any Hazardous Materials, as that term is defined in Subparagraph 5(b)(iii).

 (iii) "Hazardous Materials" means and includes any hazardous or toxic substance or container therefor that is or becomes regulated by any governmental authority and includes, without limitation, underground storage tanks and any substance that is:

 A. Defined as a "Hazardous Substance," "Hazardous Waste," or "Extremely Hazardous Substance" pursuant to any provision of the United States Code, including United States Code sections commonly known as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act or the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986;

 B. Defined as a hazardous substance or material pursuant to any state or local law, ordinance or regulation affecting the Property;

 C. A petroleum or a petroleum by-product;

 D. An asbestos or asbestos containing material;

 E. A pesticide;

 F. A polychlorinated biphenyl;

 G. A dry cleaning fluid; or

 H. A solvent.

 6. Termination if Conditions Unsatisfied.

 If any contingency of Subparagraphs 5(a)(iii)-(vi) has not been either satisfied or waived by Purchaser by the date five (5) days before the last day for Closing pursuant to Paragraph 8 hereof, or by such earlier date as may be expressly set forth above, then either Purchaser or Seller may terminate this Agreement by written notice to the other party, whereupon neither party shall have any further liability or rights under this Agreement, except pursuant to provisions that expressly survive the termination hereof.

 7. Representations and Warranties of Seller. Seller represents and warrants to and agrees with Purchaser as follows, and covenants that all the following representations and warranties will remain true and correct as of the date of Closing:

 (a) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Seller, constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of Seller and is enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms.

 (b) Except for matters shown by the King County real property records with respect to the Property, Seller is the sole owner of the Property and no other person, corporation or entity has any right, title or interest to the Property.

 (c) Seller has obtained all consents, approvals, authorizations, and orders as are required to permit Seller to execute and deliver this Agreement, and to consummate the transaction contemplated hereby.

 (d) Seller has not created, or permitted the creation of, any mortgage, lease, rental agreement, license, option, easement, right, encumbrance, covenant, condition, restriction, security interest, or lien of any kind or nature, recorded or unrecorded, including but not limited to any architect's, engineer's, landscape architect's, mechanic's or material supplier's lien, affecting or against the Property or any part thereof, that is not shown by the King County real property records with respect to the Property.

 (e) Seller is not a "foreign person" within the meaning of Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code.

 (f) Seller has not, as of the date of Closing, received any notice of any pending litigation, bankruptcy or other proceeding affecting the Property, in whole or in part, other than the notice(s) disclosed to Purchaser, in writing, by Seller.

 8. Closing.

 (a) Date of Closing. The delivery and recording of the deed to the Property and the delivery of the Purchase Price (net of costs chargeable to the Seller) to the Seller (the "Closing") shall occur on such date as the Purchaser shall specify, by no less than five (5) days' written notice to Seller, after the satisfaction or waiver of all conditions precedent to Purchaser's obligation set forth in Subparagraphs 5(a)(iii)-(vi) above, but in any event not later than _______________, 2001.

 (b) On the date set for Closing, conditioned upon receipt by the Purchaser of all items to be delivered to Purchaser identified in Subparagraph 8(c) hereof, and after recording the deed from Seller, Purchaser shall deliver to the Seller a check for the Purchase Price, adjusted for prorations and costs payable by Seller hereunder.

 (c) Seller's Closing Obligations & Instruments. On or before the date set for Closing, Seller shall deliver to the Purchaser: (i) a fully executed and acknowledged statutory warranty deed to Purchaser subject to no exceptions, and designating Purchaser at the notice address below as the party to receive such deed after recording; (ii) a fully executed Certificate of Non-Foreign Status; (iii) an executed counterpart real estate excise tax affidavit; and (iv) any other documents that are reasonably necessary to consummate this purchase and sale transaction and to enable the Title Company to insure title in the Purchaser.

 (d) Proration and Expenses. Surface water management and weed control charges shall be prorated as of the Closing Date. There shall be no other prorations. Any documentary transfer tax, real estate excise tax, or other similar tax shall be paid by Seller. Purchaser shall pay the cost of recording the statutory warranty deed. Seller shall pay the premium for the issuance of a standard coverage 1992 ALTA form of Owner's Policy of Title Insurance to be issued to Purchaser. Each party shall pay any brokers' fees and attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses incurred by such party with respect to the negotiation of this Agreement, and the consummation of the transaction contemplated herein.

 9. Possession. Purchaser shall be entitled to possession of the Property on the calendar day immediately following the date of Closing.

 10. Default. If on the date set for Closing there is any failure to satisfy the conditions set forth in Subparagraphs 5(a)(i) or 5(a)(ii), or if Seller shall fail to deliver to Purchaser the documents required by Subparagraph 8(c) when required thereunder, then Seller shall be in default. In such event, or in the event any other default by Seller is not cured within ten (10) days after notice thereof from Purchaser, the Purchaser shall be entitled to terminate all obligations of Purchaser under this Agreement by notice to Seller, and Purchaser may bring suit for specific performance or damages. If Purchaser, without legal excuse, shall fail to satisfy its obligations at Closing, notwithstanding the satisfaction of all conditions to Purchaser's obligations and Seller's tender of full performance as required hereunder, then Seller may terminate this Agreement and may bring suit for specific performance or damages..

 11. Condition of Property. Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that, if it purchases the Property, the Property is being purchased in its "as is" condition and that neither Seller, nor any of its employees or agents, has made any express warranty or representation regarding the condition of the Property or its suitability for any intended use and none shall be implied by law. Seller covenants that Seller shall not cause or permit any material modification of the condition of the Property, other than the removal of appliances, nor the use of the Property for any purpose that may involve the use, storage, or release of Hazardous Materials, up to the date of Closing.

 12. Risk of Loss; Condemnation.

 (a) Risk of loss or damage to the Property by fire or other casualty, from the date of this Agreement through the date of Closing shall be on the Seller, and thereafter shall be on the Purchaser.

 (b) If, on or prior to the date of Closing, all or any part of the Property is taken by condemnation, the Purchaser may elect to cancel this Agreement by giving Seller notice to that effect, and both parties shall be relieved and released from any liability hereunder to the other. Alternatively, the Purchaser may elect to take title to the Property in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement without reduction of the Purchase Price and shall be entitled to receive from the condemning authority any condemnation award or benefit. If Purchaser purchases the Property and complies with all of the terms of this Agreement, Seller assigns to Purchaser all of its right, title and interest in and to any condemnation award or benefit, if any, that may be owing to the owner of the Property as a result of the condemnation or taking of, or damage or change to the Property.

 13. Brokers; Indemnification Against Brokers' Claims. Purchaser and Seller each represents and warrants to the other that no person or entity is entitled, as a result of any agreement or act of such party, to be paid a fee or commission in connection this Agreement or the transfer of the Property by Seller to Purchaser. If any individual or entity shall assert a claim to a finder's fee or commission as a broker or a finder for the transfer of the Property, then the party whose agreement or action is alleged to have given rise to such claim shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the other party from and against any such claim and all costs, expenses, liabilities and damages incurred in connection with such claim or any action or proceeding brought thereon. This indemnification obligation shall survive the Closing and the termination of this Agreement.

 14. Indemnification Obligations.

 (a) Purchaser shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from any costs, loss or damage incurred as a result of the entry upon the Property and conduct pursuant to Subparagraph 3(b) of any inspection, study or survey by or for Purchaser prior to the date of Closing or the date this Agreement is terminated, whichever is earlier, except to the extent that any costs, loss or damage result from the negligence, recklessness or willful misconduct of Seller or its officers, directors, employees, agents or contractors, or from any breach by Seller of its obligations or warranties herein; provided, that if this Agreement shall be terminated without Closing, then Purchaser shall have no liability under this subparagraph for any loss, injury or damage suffered thereafter, or any related costs, unless Seller shall have given Purchaser express written notice, within thirty (30) days after the termination of this Agreement, of the conditions created by Purchaser's entry and shall have afforded Purchaser a reasonable opportunity to cure the same. In any event Purchaser shall have no liability under this Subparagraph unless Seller shall give Purchaser written notice within thirty (30) days after Seller becomes aware of any loss, damage, claim or demand that may give rise to any claim for indemnity, and shall have afforded the Purchaser, within ten (10) days of service upon Seller of any summons or complaint, the opportunity to defend any such claim or demand through counsel of Purchaser's choice.

 (b) Seller shall indemnify and hold Purchaser harmless from any and all costs, losses, damages, suits, causes of actions, and liabilities whatsoever and howsoever incurred as a result of or in connection with the entry upon the Property for any reason whatsoever by or for Seller or by any of Seller's employees, contractors, or agents after the date of Closing.

 15. Assignment; Binding Effect. This Agreement shall not be assigned by Purchaser without the prior written consent of Seller. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall be binding upon each party and its heirs, executors, administrators, assigns and successors.

 16. Notices. All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person or sent by a nationally recognized delivery service or by mail through the U.S. Postal Service with postage prepaid as follows:

 (a) If to Seller: Seattle Housing Authority

 120 Sixth Avenue North

 Seattle, WA 98109-5003

 (b) If to Purchaser: Real Estate Services

 Fleets and Facilities Department

 The City of Seattle

 14th Floor, Alaska Building

 618 Second Avenue

 Seattle, WA 98104

 Attn: David C. Hemmelgarn

 or to such other address as shall be specified by either party, for itself, by notice to the other not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the effective date of such address change. Notices shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of the second business

 day after mailing, postage prepaid, or actual receipt, as evidenced by the deliverer's affidavit, the recipient's acknowledgment of receipt, or the delivery service's receipt, and in the event of attempted delivery during normal business hours at the proper address by an agent of a party or by the delivery service or the U.S. Postal Service but refused acceptance, shall be deemed to have been given upon attempted delivery, as evidenced by an affidavit of inability to deliver stating the time, date, place and manner in which such delivery was attempted and the manner in which such delivery was refused. "Business day" means a day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or City of Seattle Holiday, and "normal business hours" means between 8:30 AM and 5:00 PM, Seattle time, on a business day.

 17. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the law of the State of Washington.

 18. Time of the Essence. Time is of the essence of this Agreement.

 19. Survival. Paragraph 11, the representations and warranties of the parties contained in this Agreement, and the parties' respective indemnification obligations, shall survive indefinitely the termination of this Agreement or the Closing, will not be merged into the deed and other documents delivered at Closing, and shall continue in full force and effect through and after the date of Closing.

 20. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts but if executed in counterparts, then only when an identical counterpart signed by each party has been are delivered to the other party shall it be deemed a binding Agreement.

 21. Waiver. Any waiver under this Agreement must be in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default shall not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default. No writing other than a document signed by the Purchaser's Department of Neighborhoods Director specifically so stating that it is a waiver shall constitute a waiver by Purchaser of any particular breach or default by Seller, nor shall such a writing waive Seller's failure to fully comply with any other term or condition of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge that any officer or employee of Purchaser may have of such breach, default, or noncompliance.

 22. Entire Agreement; Modifications; Negotiated Understanding.

(a) This Agreement, including Exhibit A (which by this reference is incorporated herein), represents the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the Property and any and all agreements, oral or written, entered into prior to the date hereof with respect to the purchase and sale of the Property are revoked and superceded by this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any lease of the Property to Purchaser shall remain in full force and effect until Closing, and nothing herein shall reduce or impair the rights of Purchaser under any such lease.

 (b) This Agreement may not be changed, modified or rescinded except in writing signed by both parties; any attempt at oral modification of this Agreement shall be of no effect.

 (c) The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Seller and Purchaser have each caused this Agreement to be executed by having its duly authorized representative affix his/her

 signature hereto as of the day and year first above written.

 SELLER: PURCHASER:

 HOUSING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:  By:

 Harry Thomas Jim Diers, Director

 Executive Director Department of Neighborhoods

 EXHIBIT A

 Legal Description of the Property

 Lots 25 and 26, Block 3, Pitner's Third Division of the Green lake Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat recorded in volume 5 of plats, page 4, records of King County, Washington, EXCEPT the east 8 feet thereof deeded for alley.

 Street address: 7012 12th NE, Seattle, WA 98115

 Tax Property Identification No. 681460 0345

 Footnote continued from previous page...

 Footnote continued on next page...

```
