

********

**Council Bill Number: 113835**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120538**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City's low-income energy conservation programs; adopting a low-income multifamily energy conservation program; clarifying program requirements; eliminating programs that no longer are used or useful; and amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 21.52 in connection therewith.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 24, 2001
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 2, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 28, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 17, 2001
   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy
   
**Sponsor:** WILLS
   
   
**Index Terms:** UTILITY-RATES, CITY-LIGHT, LOW-INCOME, CONSERVATION, ENERGY-CONSERVATION, HOUSING-REHABILITATION, PUBLIC-ASSISTANCE, APARTMENT-BUILDINGS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 120335

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City's low-income energy conservation programs; adopting a low-income multifamily energy conservation program; clarifying program requirements; eliminating programs that no longer are used or useful; and amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 21.52 in connection therewith.

 WHEREAS, the dramatic rise in wholesale energy costs has meant substantially higher costs for the City Light Department and significant rate increases for its customers, including low-income customers and housing providers serving those customers; and

 WHEREAS, the City desires to encourage conservation of electric energy in multifamily buildings occupied predominantly by low- income residents, reduce energy costs, and address the energy conservation needs of low-income tenants and housing providers; and

 WHEREAS, income eligibility standards should be set at a level that encourages participation in a low-income multifamily energy conservation program by owners of existing buildings that provide housing for low-income residents; and

 WHEREAS, a low-income multifamily energy conservation program should require participating building owners to agree to limit rents to ensure that low-income energy conservation funds are invested in buildings that will continue to serve low-income residents for a substantial period of time; and

 WHEREAS, the requirements of other City low-income energy conservation programs should be clarified; and

 WHEREAS, certain existing City energy conservation programs no longer are used or useful; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. SCM Chapter 21.52, as last amended by Ordinance 120335, is hereby

 amended to read as follows.

~~Subchapter I Conservation Investment Assistance Program~~SMC 21.52.010 Program established -- Administration.

 The Superintendent of Lighting is authorized to establish a Conservation Investment

 Assistance Program; said program shall be administered in a manner to assist certain low-

 income Lighting Department customers who heat their own homes primarily with electric heat to insulate said homes; the Superintendent of Lighting will expend a maximum of Two Hundred Seven Thousand Dollars ($207,000) to accomplish the goals of the Conservation Investment Assistance Program.

 SMC 21.52.020 Eligibility -- Low-income elderly.

 Eligibility for participation in the Conservation Investment Assistance Program shall be determined by the Human Services Department from verified applications and inspection of each home, and such qualifications shall be based on the following criteria for the following classes of low-income persons:

 Low-income Elderly.

 A. The head of household must own the home and must be sixty- five(65) years of age or older; and

 B. Have a gross annual income of less than Five Thousand Six Hundred Seven Dollars ($5,607), if single, or Seven Thousand Three Hundred Thirty-one Dollars ($7,331), if married; and

 C. Reside in the Seattle City Light service area, use the home solely for a residence and have permanently connected electrical heating facilities as the primary source of heat in the residence; and

 D. The residence of the recipient is without insulation or is equipped with below standard insulation.

 SMC 21.52.030 Eligibility -- Low-income handicapped and others.

 In the event the Superintendent of Lighting determines that there is a reasonable expectation of surplus funds remaining in the amount set forth in Sections 21.52.010 and 21.52.060, after actual and expected expenditures contemplated by Section 21.52.020, the following additional low-income classes may be determined by the Superintendent, insequential order, to be eligible for participation in the Conservation Investment Assistance Program. Eligibility for participation in the program shall be determined by the following criteria:

 A. Low -income Handicapped.

 1. The head of household must own the home and be considered low- income handicapped under criteria for the disabled and blind as promulgated by the federal government Supplemental Security Income Program; and

 2. Reside in the Seattle Lighting Department service area, use the home solely for residence and have permanently connected electrical heating facilities as the primary source of heat in the residence; and

 3. The residence of the recipient is without insulation or is equipped with below standard insulation.

 B. Other Low Income.

 1. The head of household must own the home and be considered eligible under the low-income limits set forth for the City's Neighborhood Housing Rehabilitation Program; and

 2. Reside in the Seattle Lighting Department service area, use the home solely for a residence and have permanently connected electrical heating facilities as the primary source of heat in the residence; and

 3. The residence of the recipient is without insulation or is equipped with below standard insulation.

 SMC 21.52.040 Maximum payment.

 Payments for insulation under the Conservation Investment Assistance Program shall not exceed Four Hundred Fifty Dollars ($450.00) per household.

 SMC 21.52.050 Verification - Inspection.

 Certain expert and temporary services will be utilized to verify electrical and insulation requirements of applicants, establish the work requirements for each home insulated under the Conservation Investment Assistance Program, provide periodic inspections of insulation work in progress to validate performance and inspect completed work to insure contract compliance; such services, to be performed by personnel designated "Insulation Auditors," will be performed by persons hired from the Washington State Employment Securities CETA rolls to the extent possible; in the event CETA personnel are not available, the Insulation Auditors' functions will be performed by Lighting Department or contract personnel. All CETA personnel will be trained to performed the functions of Insulation Auditors by Lighting Department personnel.

 SMC 21.52.060 Insulation priorities.

 The criteria to be utilized in determining the insulation eligibility requirements and priority in installing insulation are as follows:

 Insulation Priorities

 Priorities Work to be Done

 A. No ceiling insulation Insulate to R-19.

 or ceiling insulation less than R-11.

 B. Ceiling insulation at Floors insulated to R-11.

 least R-11, but no floor insulation in

 Unheated crawl space.

 C. Ceiling insulation less than R-19, Ceiling will be brought up to R-19.

 but more than R-11.

 D. Ceiling insulation at or above R-19, Floors insulated to R-11.

 no floor insulation in unheated

 crawl space.

 Subchapter II Miscellaneous Provisions

 SMC 21.52.100 Insulation contracts with residential heat customers.

 The Superintendent of Lighting is authorized to enter into contracts with residential heat customers of the City Light Department to provide for the supply and installation of attic and/or floor insulation by qualified contractors in a principal amount of not more than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000), based on cost and conservation of electricity, on such installment terms and conditions, including payment of interest, as appropriate. In order to provide for the implementation of such contracts, the Superintendent of Lighting and the Director of Finance are authorized to determine contractors qualified to install attic and/or floor insulation based on appropriate criteria, including capability supply and install insulation of the type and on specified terms; compliance with applicable contractor's bonding and licensing requirements; a showing of adequate financial resources and insurance coverage; and necessary integrity, judgment and skill. Following audits by City Light Department personnel to determine insulation requirements, electric heat customers may select proposals from a qualified contractor or contractors, and upon review and approval thereof, the Superintendent of Lighting and the Director of Finance are authorized to enter into an installation contract with the contractor; and any provisions of Ordinance 102151, as amended, to the extent inconsistent herewith, are hereby superseded.

 Subchapter III Comprehensive Residential Weatherization Program

 SMC 21.52.200 Purpose.

 The Comprehensive Residential Weatherization Program ('CRWP") is established by the ordinance codified in this subchapter for the purpose of encouraging the conservation of energy from all sources, reducing energy costs, and assuring a reliable supply of energy for the residents of Seattle and customers of the City Light Department.

~~~~

 SMC 21.52.210 Definitions.

 As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

 A. "Dwelling unit" means a room or rooms located within a building designed, arranged, occupied, or intended to be occupied by not more than one (1) ~~family~~ household with or without roomers and boarders as living accommodations independent from any other ~~family~~ household. The existence of a food- preparation area within the room or rooms shall be evidence of the existence of a dwelling unit.

 B. "Electric heat" means permanently installed electric heat, which is the sole source of space heating of the dwelling unit, or which is a partial source of space heating of the dwelling unity, if at least thirty-five (35) percent of the reduction in energy consumption would be electricity, as determined by The City of Seattle ("the City").

 C. "Energy conservation" means reduction in energy consumption as a result of increases in the efficiency of energy use. It includes weatherization and other measures such as installation of more efficient lighting.

~~C. "Family" means any number of related persons; or not to exceed eight (8) nonrelated persons; or not to exceed a total of eight (8) related and nonrelated, nontransient persons living as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a club, a boarding, lodging, or rooming house, or fraternity, sorority, or group student house.~~

 D. "Household: means ~~any individual living alone, or persons living together in a dwelling unit~~ one or more persons occupying a dwelling unit on a non-transient basis.

 E. "Low-income" means:

 1. For owner-occupied dwelling units: owner households at or below eighty (80) percent of the Seattle-Bellevue-Everett Metropolitan Statistical Area median income adjusted for household size as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development;

 2. For renter-occupied buildings ~~of one through four dwelling units~~: renter households at or below sixty (60) percent of the Seattle-Bellevue-Everett Metropolitan Statistical Area median income adjusted for household size as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.

~~F. "R value" means the measure of resistance to heat flow through a material, expressed in units of square feet times degrees Fahrenheit times hours per British thermal units ("BTU"). It is equal in value to the reciprocal of the thermal conductance.~~G

 F. "Superintendent" means the Superintendent of the City Light Department.

~~H~~ G. "Weatherization" means the installation of energy conservation measures, resulting in a reduction of heat loss ~~, as described in Section 21.52.220~~.

 SMC 21.52.220 Goals and policies.

 The low-income residential ~~weatherization~~ energy conservation goals and policies for the City are:

~~A. To reduce energy costs and to assure a reliable energy supply for the residents of Seattle and the customers of the City Light Department;~~B

 A. To conserve energy from all sources;

~~C~~ B. To ~~provide economic assistance~~ reduce the direct and indirect costs of energy to ~~the~~ low-income persons;

~~D~~ C. To implement residential ~~weatherization~~ energy conservation assistance programs, in the form of grants or loans ~~, in the following priority order by income and heat source:~~ for

~~1. All~~ low-income households, with primary emphasis on electrically heated dwelling units and secondary emphasis on dwelling units heated by natural gas or oil ~~,~~2. All electricity heated dwelling units not included in the first category,

 3. All households not included in the above categories, in which the primary heat source of the dwelling unit is natural gas or oil

;

~~E~~ D. To address the ~~weatherization~~ energy conservation needs of renters and landlords by seeking ~~the legal authority and~~ financial resources to encourage ~~weatherization of~~ energy conservation in rental properties;

~~F~~ E. To distribute equitably the ~~weatherization~~ energy conservation benefits among Seattle's residents and customers of the City Light Department; and

~~G~~ F. To develop and implement strategies assuring that the City's housing rehabilitation and ~~weatherization~~ energy conservation programs are complementary and effectively coordinated ~~;~~.

~~H. To require residential structures weatherized through the CRWP to comply with minimum energy conservation measures as defined in subsection A of Section 21.52.260, before receiving financing for optional energy conservation measures.~~I

 The City will not require any energy conservation measures which pose a risk to public health.

 SMC 21.52.230 Program components.

 The ~~Comprehensive~~ Low-Income Residential ~~Weatherization~~ Energy Conservation Program ("LIRECP"), which applies only to residential structures, ~~shall consist of:~~A. Energy Office. The Energy Office of the City's Executive Department shall coordinate and monitor the implementation and operation of the CRWP, and maintain liaison with other governmental bodies with respect to the CRWP;

 B. Low income Weatherization Program ("LIWP"). The LIWP includes

 consists of the programs administered by the Office of Housing which provide financial assistance for ~~weatherization of~~ energy conservation for low-income households. The Office will establish and administer procedures to screen ~~low-income~~ residents of the City and Customers of the City Light Department to determine ~~their~~ eligibility for the ~~LIWP~~ LIRECP. The ~~LIWP~~ LIRECP ~~has~~ consists of the following three (3) programs:

~~1~~ A. Low-income Electric Program ("LIEP"). LIEP shall provide grants to ~~the~~ low-income customers of the City Light Department and to owners of rental properties within the City Light service territory whose tenants are primarily low-income customers (whose primary source of heat is electricity) for the supply and installation of certain energy conservation measures. The Light Fund shall provide the source of funds for LIEP. ~~The~~ LIEP ~~program~~ shall ~~only~~ be available ~~to~~ only for residential structures of one (1) ~~to~~~~through~~ four (4) dwelling units, in which fifty percent or more of the dwelling units are occupied by low-income households.

~~2~~ B. Low-income Weatherization Assistance ("LIWA") Program. The LIWA program shall provide grants for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures to ~~Seattle residents who are recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) and to~~ low-income, ~~fragile~~ frail, or elderly Seattle residents whose income is equal to or less than ~~the defined federal eligibility standards~~ limits defined by the State of Washington and whose primary heat source is natural gas or oil. The LIWA program shall be funded from non-City sources.

~~3. Weatherization Urban Development Action Grant ("Weatherization UDAG") Program. The weatherization UDAG program shall provide weatherization loans and grants for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures to low-income households who income is greater than that allowed under the LIWA program, but less than eighty (80) percent of the SMSA median family income and whose primary heat source is oil or natural gas. The weatherization UDAG program will be implemented by contracts between the City and participating lending institutions on terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Director of Housing, consistent with the provisions of the program~~.))

 C. Low-Income Multifamily Electric Program ("LIMEP"). LIMEP shall provide grants to the owners of buildings within the City Light service territory for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures. Energy conservation measures shall be limited to buildings whose primary source of heat is electricity. The Light Fund shall provide the source of funds for LIMEP. LIMEP shall be available only for residential structures of five (5) or more dwelling units in which more than fifty (50) percent of the dwelling units are occupied by households that qualify as low- income.

~~C.1. Home Energy Loan Program ("HELP"). HELP shall be administered by the City Light Department for its customers who dwelling units are electrically heated. HELP shall provide assistance for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures designated by the Department on the terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Superintendent and the Director of Finance, consistent with this chapter and with the requirements of Amendment 70, Article VIII, Section 10 of the Washington State Constitution, as implemented by the Revised Code of Washington, RCW 35.92.360.~~2. HELP shall enter into agreements for the supply and installation of the energy conservation measures set forth in Section 21.52.260. The cost of energy saved or produced by the use of the measures shall be less than the per unit cost of energy produced by the next least costly new energy resource which the City Light Department could acquire to meet future demand for electricity. The HELP Program shall only be available to residential structures of one (1) to four (4) dwelling units.

 D. Office of Housing. The Office of Housing shall encourage weatherization among those residents of Seattle not served by other components of the CRWP.

 SMC 21.52.240 Home Energy Loan Program (HELP).

 A. The Superintendent is authorized to enter into agreements with the City Light Department's residential electric heat customers to supply and install the energy conservation measures specified in Section 21.52.260.

 B. Prior to entering into the agreements, an energy audit shall be conducted by City personnel to determine and inform the owner of the dwelling unit of:

 1. Energy conservation measures needed in the dwelling unit;

 2. The estimated lifecycle energy costs that are likely to result from the installation of the energy conservation measures; and

 3. The maximum amount of financial assistance that can be provided by HELP.

 C. Subsequent to the energy audit, a list of contractors who can supply and install the energy conservation measures determined by the energy audit to be advisable shall be supplied by City personnel to the owner of the dwelling unit. If the owner of a dwelling unit requests financial assistance from HELP, the City Light Department is authorized to arrange to have designated energy conservation measures supplied and installed by a qualified contractor whose bid is acceptable to the owner of the dwelling unit, the Superintendent, and the Purchasing Agent. Following installation of the energy conservation measures by a qualified contractor, the work shall be inspected by City personnel for compliance with federal standards and additional City Light standards.

 D. To provide for the implementation of the agreements with customers, the Superintendent and the Purchasing Agent are authorized to contract with qualified contractors to supply and install designated energy conservation measures on terms and conditions consistent with the provisions of this chapter and RCW 35.92.360. The principal amount to be paid by the customer pursuant to agreements executed prior to December 31, 1981, shall not exceed

 Five Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($5,500) per household; provided, that the Superintendent or his designee may thereafter review and adjust the maximum assistance amount in response to significant changes in the cost of supplying and installing energy conservation measures consistent with subsection E of Section 21.52.260, pursuant to the rule making provisions of the Seattle Administrative Code, Ordinance 102228, as amended. The terms and conditions and conditions of this assistance, including but not limited to repayment, interest charge, and billing, shall be adopted by the Superintendent pursuant to the administrative rule making procedure in the Seattle Administrative Code, Seattle Municipal Code, Chapter 3.02 (Ordinance 102228, as amended). Provided, however, that all terms and conditions adopted by the Superintendent shall be consistent with and shall not exceed the limitations of RCW 35.92.360.

 SMC 21.52.250 Low-income Electric Program (LIEP).

 A. The Superintendent and the Director of Housing are authorized to enter into an agreement to implement the LIEP, on terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Superintendent and the Director.

 B. The Director of Housing is authorized to provide ~~weatherization~~ energy conservation assistance grants to owners of buildings in which fifty percent or more of the dwelling units are occupied by low-income households with electric heat, for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures by qualified contractors, consistent with this chapter. An energy audit shall be conducted by City personnel to determine what energy conservation measures are needed in the dwelling unit. Following installation of the energy conservation measures by a qualified contractor, the work shall be inspected by City personnel for compliance with federal standards and additional City Light standards. As a condition of participation in LIEP, the Office of Housing shall require each building owner to sign a covenant to limit the rent charged to tenants, in language determined by the Superintendent and Director of Housing with the length of the covenant to be determined based on the amount and terms of energy conservation assistance provided.

 C. The Director of Housing is authorized to enter into contracts with qualified contractors for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures to terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Director ~~and the Director of Finance~~.

 SMC 21.52.260 Low-Income Multifamily Electric Program.

 A. The Superintendent and the Director of Housing are authorized to enter into an agreement to implement the LIMEP, on terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Superintendent and the Director.

 B. The Director of Housing is authorized to provide energy conservation grants to owners of residential buildings in which fifty percent or more of the dwelling units are occupied by low- income households with electric heat, for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures by qualified contractors, consistent with this chapter. An energy audit shall be conducted by City personnel to determine what energy conservation measures are needed in the building. Following installation of the energy conservation measures by a qualified contractor, the work shall be inspected by City personnel for compliance with federal standards and additional City Light standards. As a condition of participation in LIMEP, the Office of Housing shall require each building owner to sign a covenant to limit the rent charged to tenants, in language determined by the Superintendent and Director of Housing with the length of the covenant to be determined based on the amount and terms of assistance provided.

 C. The Director of Housing is authorized to enter into contracts with qualified contractors for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures on terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Director.

~~SMC 21.52.260 Energy conservation measures described.~~A. The following energy conservation measures are required for participation in the CRWP, unless the Superintendent or the director of the department administering a weatherization program authorized by this subchapter determines in writing that installation of a measure would require substantial structural alterations which significantly diminish the cost effectiveness of the energy conservation measure:

 1. Attics. R-30 insulation shall be installed, unless R-19 or better insulation is already installed. If attic insulation is installed, the attic also must be ventilated in compliance with the Seattle Building Code.

 2. Floors. R-19 insulation shall be installed in crawl spaces, unless R-9 or better insulation is already installed. A vapor barrier, equivalent to not less than four thousandths of an inch (4 mil) thick polyethylene, shall be installed in all crawl spaces.

 3. Water/Steam Pipes. Accessible water and steam pipes located in unheated spaces shall be insulated.

 4. Heating Ducts. R-6 insulation of accessible heating ducts located in unheated spaces shall be installed.

 5. Water Heaters. R-5 exterior insulation of water heaters shall be installed, unless the water heater is certified by the manufacturers to have a standby loss of no greater than thirteen and six tenths (13.6) Btu's (four (4) watts) per square foot of external surface area. The water heater thermostat shall be set back to no greater than one hundred thirty degrees (130) Fahrenheit, measured at the faucet nearest to the water heater.

 B. At the option of the customer, the required energy conservation measures listed in subsection A of this section and the following optional measures may be financed by the CRWP.

 1. Walls. R-11 wall insulation;

 2. Floors. R-19 insulation in basements;

 3. Caulking and Weatherstripping. Caulking of openings in the exterior building envelope and weatherstripping of exterior doors and windows, as well as doors leading from heated to unheated spaces, to American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers ("ASHRAE") standards; and

 4. Smoke Detectors. Underwriters' Laboratories (UL) or Factory Mutual (FM) approved battery or hard-wired smoke detectors; if hardwired, installation shall be in accordance with and under permit of the Seattle Electrical Code, Ordinance 108482, as amended.

 C. 1. In addition to the energy conservation measures identified in subsections A and B of this section, the following energy conservation measures may be financed by HELP:

 a. R-38 attic insulation

 b. Storm windows; and

 c. Automatic setback thermostats; and

 2. The following energy conservation measures may be financed under the UDAG Program and provided through the LIWA Program:

 a. R-38 insulation;

 b. Storm windows;

 c. Flame retention burners;

 d. Energy efficient gas furnace appliances;

 e. Automatic setback thermostats;

 f. Exhaust fans;

 g. Air to air exchangers; and

 h. Furnance repairs.

 D. As part of the energy audit, the City shall determine what repairs and/or rehabilitation are necessary to ensure for at least two (2) years the effectiveness of the energy conservation measures installed through the CRWP. All owners of residential structures which do not meet the two (2) year criteria must provide for necessary rehabilitation or repair services before or when the energy conservation measures are installed. Up to Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250) in necessary repairs may be considered an energy conservation measure eligible for financing through LIEP and the UDAG Program.

 E. 1. Pursuant to the rule making provisions of the Seattle Administrative Code, Ordinance 102228, as amended, (Note 2) the Superintendent and the Director of Housing may revise the energy conservation measures designated in subsections A and B of this section, provided the revision does not diminish the cost effectiveness of the measure.

 2. Pursuant to the rule making provisions of the Seattle Administrative Code, Ordinance 102228, as amended, (Note 2) the Superintendent may revise the energy conservation measures designated in subsection C of this section, provided the revision does not diminish the cost effectiveness of the measure. The energy conservation measures designated in this Section 21.52.260 shall be added or deleted only by ordinance.

 SMC 21.52.270 Liability limitations.

 No provision of nor term used in this ~~subchapter~~ chapter is intended to impose any duty whatsoever upon the City or any of its officers or employees, for whom the implementation of this ~~subchapter~~ chapter shall be discretionary and not mandatory. Nothing contained in this ~~subchapter~~ chapter or any agreement or act authorized hereunder is intended to be nor shall be construed to create or form the basis for any liability on the part of the City, or its officers, employees or agents, for any injury or damage resulting from the implementation of the ~~subchapter~~ chapter, or by reason of any action or inaction on the part of the City, or its officers, employees, or agents, related in any manner to the implementation of this ~~subchapter~~ chapter.

 Section 2. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 20___, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 20___.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Glenn Atwood/ga

 H:

 09/10/01

 V #1

```
