

********

**Council Bill Number: 113819**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120541**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Section 23.54.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code, modifying minimum parking requirements for multifamily uses that provide housing for low-income households, and modifying or clarifying other provisions related to parking requirements.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 1, 2001
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 8, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 8, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 4, 2001
   
**Committee:** Landlord/Tenant and Land Use
   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO
   
   
**Index Terms:** MULTI-FAMILY-RESIDENTIAL-AREAS, COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN, LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, PARKING

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 120004; Related: Res 30196

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Section 23.54.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code, modifying minimum parking requirements for multifamily uses that provide housing for low- income households, and modifying or clarifying other provisions related to parking requirements.

 WHEREAS, Land Use Policy 138 in the Seattle Comprehensive Plan provides direction to balance the need to meet the approximate parking demand generated by new development so as to avoid adding to congestion of parked cars on surrounding streets, with the countervailing need to limit the effects structured parking can have on housing costs, and to recognize the Seattle Comprehensive Plan's policies encouraging the use of public transit and discouraging the use of automobiles; and

 WHEREAS, Land Use Policy 139 in the Seattle Comprehensive Plan recommends allowing exceptions to parking requirements for projects in which the parking demand of the occupants may be significantly different from those of the general population; and

 WHEREAS, Housing Policy 5 in the Seattle Comprehensive Plan recommends allowing for lower off-street parking requirements where lower car ownership and parking utilization can be demonstrated; and

 WHEREAS, Housing Policy 7 in the Seattle Comprehensive Plan recommends conducting periodic assessment of the effects of City policies and regulations on housing development costs and overall housing affordability, considering the balance between housing affordability and the other objectives such as environmental quality, urban design quality, maintenance of neighborhood character, and protection of public health, safety and welfare; and

 WHEREAS, the Office of Housing conducted a survey of parking utilization in low-income housing projects in March 2001 to evaluate the impacts of the City's parking policies and regulations on development costs for low-income housing projects and to identify opportunities to lower off-street parking requirements based on survey findings; and

 WHEREAS, Council adopted Ordinance 120004 on June 26, 2000, implementing key recommendations in the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village Plan, including lower off-street parking requirements within the Pike/Pine Overlay District, recognizing that car ownership and parking utilization rates in this area are lower compared to those for the City as a whole, as demonstrated through a neighborhood parking study; and

 WHEREAS, Council adopted Resolution 30196 establishing the City's Neighborhood Planning Policy Docket 17, On and Off-street Parking Management Strategies, providing direction to the Strategic Planning Office, the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use, Seattle Transportation, City Budget Office, Executive Services Department, and other City departments to work with communities to develop and implement parking management strategies; and

 WHEREAS, Resolution 30196 established a work program to provide better parking management tools, and as a result of that work, the Executive recommends eliminating or reducing minimum parking requirements in areas where average household car ownership rates are lower and where viable alternatives to single-occupancy vehicle travel exist; and

 WHEREAS, some Councilmembers requested the Executive to prepare Land Use Code amendments to allow modified parking requirements for multifamily uses that provide low-income housing;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subsections C through I and Chart A of Section 23.54.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 120004, are amended as follows:

 23.54.015 Required parking.

 * * *

C.If an entire use or structure, or the same portion of a use or structure, falls under more than one category in Chart A, then unless otherwise specified the category requiring the least amount of parking spaces shall apply, but only so long as the criteria in that category are satisfied.

D~~C~~. Existing legal parking deficits of legally established uses shall be allowed to continue even if a change of use occurs. This ~~provision~~subsection shall not apply to a change of use to one defined as a heavy traffic generator. This subsection shall not be construed to permit a parking deficit caused by the failure to satisfy conditions of a reduced parking requirement for any use or structure.

E~~D~~. In all zones ~~except downtown zones~~, no parking shall be required for the first twenty-five hundred (2,500) square feet of gross floor area of ~~a structure containing~~ nonresidential uses in a structure. This waiver shall not apply to structures or portions of structures occupied by fast-food restaurants, motion picture theaters, administrative offices, or institutional uses, including Major Institution uses. When two (2) or more uses with different parking ratios occupy a structure, the twenty-five hundred (2,500) square foot waiver shall be prorated based on the area occupied by the nonresidential uses for which the parking waiver is permitted.

~~E. Commercial uses permitted in midrise and highrise zones according to Section 23.45.110 shall have no parking requirement over that required for residential use in the same structure. Up to ten (10) parking spaces per business establishment may be provided at the discretion of the applicant.~~

 F. Exceptions to the parking requirements set forth in this section are provided in Section 23.54.020, Parking quantity exceptions, unless otherwise specified in Chart A.

 G. Except in downtown zones, off-street parking for fleet vehicles shall be provided separately, in addition to the minimum parking requirements.

 H. For nonschool uses permitted to locate in a former or existing public school by a School Use Advisory Committee (SUAC), parking requirements shall be determined by the school use criteria, according to Chapter 23.78, Establishment of Criteria for Joint Use or Reuse of Schools.

 I. Bicycle Parking.

 1. In L2, L3, L4, MR and HR zones, and the SCM zone, for apartments and terraced housing, spaces for bicycles shall be provided in a safe and convenient location, according to the following chart:

 Number of Bicycle Number of Units Spaces Required 5 - 10 1 11 - 20 2 More than 20 1 for every 10 units

 2. Bicycle parking spaces shall be provided by all institutions in multifamily zones. The number of required bicycle parking spaces shall be five (5) percent of the number of required vehicle spaces. All bicycle spaces should be sheltered from the weather, visible from the institution, and conveniently located.

 3. Bicycle parking facilities, either off-street or in the street right- of-way, shall be provided in NC1, NC2, NC3, C1 zones, and the SCM zone for any new use which requires twenty (20) or more automobile parking spaces according to Chart A. Automobile service stations, and other drive-in businesses except fast-food restaurants, shall be exempted from this requirement. All bicycle parking facilities in the street right-of-way shall conform to Seattle Transportation standards.

 a. The number of required bicycle parking spaces shall be ten (10) percent of the number of required off-street auto parking spaces.

 b. When any covered automobile parking is provided, all bicycle parking shall be covered.

 4. Bicycle parking facilities accessory to nonresidential uses shall be located on the lot or within eight hundred (800) feet of the lot. Bicycle parking accessory to residential uses shall be located on-site. Bicycle parking facilities shared by more than one (1) use are encouraged. When located off-street, bicycle and automobile parking areas shall be separated by a barrier or painted lines.

 * * *

 Chart A for Section 23.54.015 PARKING

 Use Parking Requirements Adult care center1 1 space for each 10 adults (clients) or 1 space for each staff member, whichever is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading space for each 20 adults (clients).

 Adult family home 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Adult motion picture theater 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Adult panoram 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Airport, land-based (waiting 1 space for each 100 square feet. area)

 Airport, water-based (waiting 1 space for each 100 square feet. area)

 Animal services 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Animal husbandry (retail area 1 space for each 350 square feet. only)

 Aquaculture (retail area only) 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Artist's studio/dwelling 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Assisted living facility2 1 space for each 4 assisted living units plus 1 space for each 2 staff members on-site at peak staffing time; plus 1 barrier-free passenger loading and unloading space; plus loading berth requirements per Section 23.54.035.

 Automotive parts or accessory 1 space for each 350 square feet. sales

 Ball courts 1 space per court.

 Bed and breakfast 1 space for each dwelling, plus 1 space for each 2 guest rooms or suites.

 Bowling alley 5 spaces for each lane.

 Brewpub 1 space for each 200 square feet.

 Business support services 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Business incubators 1 space for each 1,000 square feet.

 Carwash 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Caretaker's quarters 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Cargo terminal 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Cemetery None.

 Child care center1,9 1 space for each 10 children or 1 space for each staff member, whichever is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading space for each 20 children.

 Colleges1 A number of spaces equal to 15 percent of the maximum number of students present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of the number of employees present at peak hour; plus 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area in outdoor spectator sports facilities.

 Commercial laundries 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Commercial moorage 1 space for each 140 lineal feet of moorage.

 Communication utilities 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Community centers1, 2 and 1 space for each 80 square feet of Community clubs1, 2 floor area of all auditoria and public assembly rooms not containing fixed seats; or 1 space for every 8 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 space for each 350 square feet, excluding ball courts.

 Community centers owned and 1 space for each 555 square feet. operated by the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR)1, 2, 3

 Congregate residences 1 space for each 4 residents.

 Construction services 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Custom and craft work 1 space for each 1,000 square feet.

 Dance halls (dance floor and 1 space for each 100 square feet. table area)

 Dry storage of boats 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Family support centers located 1 space for each 100 square feet. in community centers owned and operated by the Seattle DOPAR3

 Floating homes 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Food processing for human 1 space for each 1,000 square feet. consumption

 Gas station 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 General retail sales and 1 space for each 350 square feet. services

 Ground-floor businesses in None, maximum of 10 spaces. multi-family zones

 Heavy commercial services 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Heliports (waiting area) 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 High-impact uses. 1 space for each 1,500 square feet or as determined by the Director.

 Horticultural uses (retail 1 space for each 350 square feet. area only)

 Hospitals1 1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1 additional space for each 5 employees; plus 1 for each 6 beds.

 Hotels 1 space for each 4 sleeping rooms or suites.

 Institute for advanced study1 1 space for each 1,000 square feet of administrative offices and similar spaces; plus 1 space for each 10 fixed seats in all auditoria and public assembly rooms; or 1 space for each 100 square feet of public assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Institutes for advanced study 3.5 spaces for each 1,000 square feet in single-family zones of office space; plus 10 spaces for (existing) each 1,000 square feet of additional building footprint to house and support conference center activities, or 37 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of actual conference rooms to be constructed, whichever is greater.

 Kennel 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Lecture and meeting hall 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Library10 1 space for each 80 square feet of floor area of all auditoria and public meeting rooms; plus 1 space for each 500 square feet of floor area, excluding auditoria and public meeting rooms.

 Major durables, sales, 1 space for each 2,000 square feet. service, and rental

 Manufacturing, general 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, heavy 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, light 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Marine service station 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Medical services 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Miniature golf 1 space for each 2 holes.

 Mini-warehouse 1 space for each 30 storage units.

 Mobile home park 1 space for each mobile home.

 Mortuary services 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Motels 1 space for each sleeping room or suite.

 Motion picture studio 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Motion picture theater 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Multifamily uses,4 Development sites~~Uses~~except as otherwise containing 2--10 dwelling provided below13 units: ~~those listed below~~

 1.1 spaces for each dwelling unit. Development sites~~Uses~~ containing 11--30 dwelling units:

 1.15 For each dwelling unit. Development sites~~Uses~~ containing 31--60 dwelling units:

 1.2 spaces for each dwelling unit. Development sites~~Uses~~ containing more than 60 dwelling units:

 1.25 spaces for each dwelling unit. In addition, for all multifamily uses whose average gross floor area per dwelling unit, excluding decks and all portions of a structure shared by multiple dwelling units, exceeds 500 square feet, an additional .0002 spaces per square foot in excess of 500 shall be required up to a maximum additional .15 spaces per dwelling unit; and

 When at least 50 percent of the dwelling units in a multi-family use have 3 bedrooms, an additional .25 spaces per bedroom for each unit with 3 bedrooms shall be required; and

 Any multi-family use which contains a dwelling unit with 4 or more bedrooms shall be required to provide an additional .25 spaces per bedroom for each unit with 4 or more bedrooms.5

 Multifamily uses containing 1.5 spaces per unit with 2 or more dwelling units with 2 or more bedrooms. The requirement for bedrooms, when within the units with 3 or more bedrooms area impacted by the University contained above shall also of Washington as shown on Map apply. All other requirements A following this section for units with fewer than , unless another provision 2 bedrooms shall be as below allows fewer parking contained above.5 spaces ~~, unless such multifamily uses are occupied by low-income elderly, low- income disabled, or low-income elderly/low-income disabled households, in which case the provisions below apply~~

 Multifamily uses, when within 1.5 spaces for each the Alki area as shown on Map ~~per~~dwelling B following this section unit. , unless another provision below allows fewer parking spaces ~~, unless such multifamily uses are occupied by low-income elderly, low- income disabled, or low-income elderly/low-income disabled households, in which case the provisions below apply~~

Multifamily uses, for 1 space for each dwelling unit. development sites that contain a total of ten (10) or fewer dwelling units, all inground-related structures ~~Multifamily development, for those ground-related uses within the development with 10 units or fewer dwelling units~~

Multifamily uses, for each 1 space for each 2 dwelling dwelling unit rented to and units, for units with 2 or fewer occupied by a household with an bedrooms, and 1 space income at time of its initial for each dwelling unit, occupancy at or below (30) for units with 3 or percent of the median family more bedrooms.  income, adjusted for household size, for the Seattle- Bellevue-Everett Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area, as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 14; and multi family uses, when located in Center City neighborhoods12 , for each dwelling unit occupied by a household with an income at time of its initial occupancy at or below fifty (50) percent of median family income adjusted for household size, for the Seattle-Bellevue- Everett Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area, as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 14; for the life of the building

Multifamily uses, when 0.75 spaces for each dwelling unit. located outside Center City neighborhoods12, for each dwelling unit with two (2) or fewer bedrooms rented to and occupied by a household with an income at the time of its initial occupancy of between thirty (30) and fifty (50) percent of the median family income, adjusted for household size, for the Seattle-Bellevue-Everett Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area, as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 14; for the life of the building

 Multifamily uses occupied 1 space for each 6 dwelling units. by low-income elderly households

 Multifamily uses occupied 1 space for each 4 dwelling units. by low-income disabled households

 Multifamily uses occupied 1 space for each 5 dwelling units. by low-income elderly/low- income disabled households

 Multifamily uses, when 1 space for each dwelling unit. within the Seattle Cascade Mixed zone or the Pike/Pine Overlay District

 Multifamily uses, when within 1 space for each 2 dwelling units the Pike/Pine Overlay District, ((~~, when applicants for each ~~residential~~~~demonstrate compliance with these  dwelling unit rented to criteria for the life of the ~~~~and occupied by a  building. household ~~s~~ with an income at time of its initial occupancy at or below sixty (60) percent of the median family income, adjusted for household size, for the Seattle-Bellevue- Everett Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area, as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), at rent~~s~~ not exceeding 30 percent of 60 percent of ~~the~~such median family income, adjusted for household size; for the life of the building~~, for the Seattle--Everett Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development~~

 Multi-purpose convenience store 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Museum1 1 space for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms, not containing fixed seats; or 1 space for every 10 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; plus 1 space for each 250 square feet of other gross floor area open to the public.

 Nonhousehold sales and 1 space for each 2,000 square feet. services, except sales, service and rental of office equipment

 Nursing homes6 1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1 additional space for each 3 employees; plus 1 space for each 6 beds.

 Office, administrative 1 space for each 1,000 square feet.

 Office, customer service 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Outdoor storage 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Parks None.

 Participant sports and 1 space for each 350 square feet. recreation, indoor, unless otherwise specified

 Participant sports and 1 space for each 350 square feet. recreation, outdoor, unless otherwise specified

 Passenger terminals (waiting 1 space for each 100 square feet. area)

 Performing arts theater 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Personal transportation 1 space for each 2,000 square feet. services

 Playgrounds None.

 Power plants 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Private club1 1 space for each 80 square feet of floor area of all auditoria and public assembly rooms not containing fixed seats; or

 1 space for every 8 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; or

 if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 space for each 350 square feet, excluding ball courts.

 Railroad rights-of-way None.

 Railroad switchyard 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Railroad switchyard with 1 space for each 2,000 square feet. mechanized hump

 Recreational marinas 1 space for each 75 lineal feet of moorage.

 Recycling center 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Recycling collection station None.

 Religious facility1 1 space for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms.

 Research and development 1 space for each 1,000 square feet. laboratory

 Restaurant 1 space for each 200 square feet.

 Restaurant, fast-food 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 Sale and rental of large 1 space for each 2,000 square feet. boats

 Sale and rental of motorized 1 space for each 2,000 square feet. vehicles

 Sale of boat parts and 1 space for each 350 square feet. accessories

 Sale of heating fuel 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sales, service and rental of 1 space for each 2,000 square feet. commercial equipment

 Sales, service and rental of 1 space for each 350 square feet. office equipment

 Salvage yard 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 School, private elementary 1 space for each 80 square feet of and secondary1,2 all auditoria and public assembly rooms, or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 space for each staff member.

 School, public elementary 1 space for each 80 square feet of and secondary 1,2,7 all auditorium or public assembly rooms, or 1 space for every 8 fixed seats in auditoria or public assembly rooms, containing fixed seats, for new public schools on a new or existing public school site.

 Sewage treatment plant 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Single-family dwelling units 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Skating rink (rink area) 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 Solid waste transfer station 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Specialty food stores 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Spectator sports facility11 1 space for each 10 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Sport range 1 space for each 2 stations.

 Swimming pool (water area) 1 space for each 150 square feet.

 Taverns 1 space for each 200 square feet.

 Transit vehicle base 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Universities 8 A number of spaces equal to 15 percent of the maximum number of students present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of the number of employees present at peak hour; plus 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area in outdoor spectator sports facilities.

 Utility service uses 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vehicle and vessel repair 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vocational or fine arts school 1 space for each 2 faculty plus full- time employees; plus 1 space for each 5 students (based on the maximum number of students in attendance at any one time).

 Warehouse 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Wholesale showroom 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Work-release centers 1 space for each 2 full-time staff members; plus 1 space for each 5 residents; plus 1 space for each vehicle operated in connection with the work-release center.

 1 When permitted in single-family zones as conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022; when permitted in multifamily zones as a conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122. The Director, in consultation with the Director of Seattle Transportation, may allow adult care and childcare centers locating in existing ~~structures~~uses to provide loading and unloading spaces on-street when no other alternative exists.

 2 Indoor gymnasiums shall not be considered ball courts, nor shall they be considered auditoria or public assembly rooms unless they contain bleachers (fixed seats). If the gymnasium contains bleachers, the parking requirement for the entire gymnasium shall be one (1) parking space for every eight (8) fixed seats. Each twenty inches (20") of width of bleachers shall be counted as one (1) fixed seat for the purposes of determining parking requirements. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a school, there is no parking requirement for the gymnasium. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center, the parking requirement shall be one (1) space for each 350 square feet. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center owned and operated by the Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR), the parking requirement shall be one (1) space for each five hundred fifty-five (555) square feet.

 3 When family support centers are located within community centers owned and operated by DOPAR, the Director may lower the combined parking requirement by up to a maximum of fifteen percent (15%), pursuant to Section 23.54.020 I.

 4 Parking spaces required for multifamily uses may be provided as tandem spaces according to subsection B of Section 23.54.020.

 5 Bedroom-Any habitable room as defined by the Building Code that ~~which~~, in the determination of the Director, is capable of being used as a bedroom.

 6 When specified in single-family zones, Section 23.44.015, the Director may waive some or all of the parking requirements.

 7 For public schools, when an auditorium or other place of assembly is demolished and a new one built in its place, parking requirements shall be determined based on the new construction. When an existing public school on an existing public school site is remodeled, additional parking is required if any auditorium or other place of assembly is expanded or additional fixed seats are added. Additional parking is required as shown on Chart A for the increase in floor area or increase in number of seats only. If the parking requirement for the increased area or seating is ten percent (10%) or less than that for the existing auditorium or other place of assembly, then no additional parking shall be required.

 8 Development standards departure may be granted or required pursuant to the procedures and criteria set forth in Chapter 23.79 to reduce the required or permitted number of parking spaces.

 9 Child care facilities, when co-located with assisted living facilities, may count the passenger load/unload space required for the assisted living facility toward its required passenger load/unload spaces.

 10 When permitted in single-family zones as conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022; when permitted in multi-family zones as a conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122; and when permitted in commercial zones, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022L.

 11 Required parking for spectator sports facilities or exhibition halls must be available when the facility or exhibition hall is in use. A facility shall be considered to be "in use" during the period beginning three (3) hours before an event is scheduled to begin and ending one (1) hour after a scheduled event is expected to end. For sports events of variable or uncertain duration, the expected event length shall be the average length of the events of the same type for which the most recent data are available, provided it is within the past five (5) years. During an inaugural season, or for non-recurring events, the best available good faith estimate of event duration will be used. A facility will not be deemed to be "in use" by virtue of the fact that administrative or maintenance personnel are present. The Director may reduce the required parking for any event when projected attendance for a spectator sports facility is certified to be 50% or less of the facility's seating capacity, to an amount not less than that required for the certified projected attendance, at the rate of one space for each ten fixed seats of certified projected attendance. An application for reduction and the certification shall be submitted to the Director at least 15 days prior to the event. When the event is one of a series of similar events, such certification may be submitted for the entire series 15 days prior to the first event in the series. If the Director finds that a certification of projected attendance of 50% or less of the seating capacity is based on satisfactory evidence such as past attendance at similar events or advance ticket sales, the Director shall, within 15 days of such submittal, notify the facility operator that a reduced parking requirement has been approved, with any conditions deemed appropriate by the Director to ensure adequacy of parking if expected attendance should change. The parking requirement reduction may be applied for only if the goals of the facility's Transportation Management Plan are otherwise being met. The Director may revoke or modify a parking requirement reduction approval during a series, if projected attendance is exceeded.

12 For purposes of this Section, Center City neighborhoods are the following urban villages: Uptown Queen Anne, South Lake Union, Capitol Hill, Pike/Pine, First Hill, and 12th Avenue, as shown in the City of Seattle Comprehensive Plan.

13 These general requirements for multifamily uses are superseded to the extent that a use, structure or development qualifies for either a greater or a lesser parking requirement under any provision below. The different parking requirements for certain multifamily uses listed below shall not be construed to create separate uses for purposes of any requirements related to establishing or changing a use under this Title.  14 Notice of Income Restrictions. Prior to issuance of any permit to establish, construct or modify any use or structure, or to reduce any parking accessory to a multifamily use or structure, if the applicant relies upon these reduced parking requirements, the applicant shall record in the King County Office of Records and Elections a declaration signed and acknowledged by the owner(s), in a form prescribed by the Director, which shall identify the subject property by legal description, and shall acknowledge and provide notice to any prospective purchasers that specific income limits are a condition for maintaining the reduced parking requirement.

 * * *

 Section 2. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2001. _____________________________________ President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2001. ___________________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2001. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 9/18/01 (Ver. 5)

```
