

********

**Council Bill Number: 113811**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120562**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the redevelopment of Rainier Vista by the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle; and authorizing the Mayor to execute a Memorandum of Agreement with the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 15, 2001
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Nicastro, Pageler)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 23, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 17, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 20, 2001
   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services, Education and Civil Rights
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER AND STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, SEATTLE-HOUSING-AUTHORITY, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, MIXED-INCOME-HOUSING

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the redevelopment of Rainier Vista by the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle; and authorizing the Mayor to execute a Memorandum of Agreement with the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle.

 WHEREAS, the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle ("SHA") received a thirty-five million dollar grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) under the HOPE VI Revitalization Program to partially fund the redevelopment of the public housing community known as Rainier Vista in southeast Seattle into a mixed income housing community in partnership with private and public entities; and

 WHEREAS, the City and SHA desire to enter into this Memorandum of Agreement 2001 in order to address a number of concerns regarding the Rainier Vista redevelopment;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a Memorandum of Agreement ("MOA"), substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, with the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle concerning the Rainier Vista redevelopment project.

 Section 2. Commencing March 1, 2002 and continuing until 2008, the Director of the Office of Housing shall provide annual reports to the City Council that include, at a minimum, the status of the Seattle Housing Authority's compliance with the Annual Production Targets (attached as Attachment 1 to the MOA).

 Section 3. Nothing in this ordinance represents that the City will exercise its authority under its regulatory ordinances to permit or to further the redevelopment project, nor binds it to do so; rather, the City will process applications for permits and approvals under applicable ordinances without reference to this ordinance or the agreement authorized hereunder.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code

 Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 20___, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 20___. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___ ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___ ___________________________________ City Clerk

 10/15/01 V #10 Exhibit A RAINIER VISTA MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT 2001

 This Memorandum of Agreement 2001 is made between the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, a public body corporate and impolitic under the laws of the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation.

 RECITALS

 A. SHA received a thirty-five million dollar grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) under the HOPE VI Revitalization Program to partially fund the redevelopment of the public housing community known as Rainier Vista in southeast Seattle into a mixed income housing community in partnership with private and public entities.

 B. The City and SHA desire to enter into this Memorandum of Agreement 2001 in order to address a number of concerns regarding the Rainier Vista redevelopment.

 C. The City Council passed Ordinance ________ on ____________, 2001, authorizing the Mayor to execute a Memorandum of Agreement substantially in the form attached to the ordinance.

 NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:

 1. DEFINITIONS

 The following words and terms have the following meaning for purposes of this Agreement.

 1.1. "Agreement" means this Memorandum of Agreement 2001.

 1.2. "Annual Production Targets" means the annual production targets, including number, type, affordability, and completion of units, as shown in

 Attachment 1.

 1.3. "City" means the City of Seattle.

 1.4. "City Funds" means funds, including but not limited to Housing Levy, Community Development Block Grant, HOME, and Built Smart funds; credits; or facilities; equipment or services provided by the City pursuant to this Agreement.

 1.5. "Federal Operating Subsidies" means operating subsidies made available through an Section 8, Section 9, or other similar federal operating subsidies.

 1.6. "HUD" means the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

 1.7. "NOFA" means notice of funding availability.

 1.8. "OH" means the City of Seattle Office of Housing.

 1.9. Partnership Units" means the up to 71 replacement housing units shown in Attachment 1 that are developed, leased, owned and/or managed by non-profit housing organizations in partnership with SHA, on or off of the Rainier Vista site.

 1.10. "Public Housing" means units of housing available to persons eligible under HUD regulations to participate in the public housing program, the operation of which is subsidized by funds received under Section 9 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, as amended.

 1.11. "Rainier Vista Housing Plan" means the plan identified in Section 3 of this Agreement and Attachment 1.

 1.12. "Rainier Vista Site" means the site shown in the attached map and legal descriptions in Attachments 5 and 6, respectively.

 1.13. "Replacement Units" means the 481 replacement housing units, that will replace the 481 public housing units demolished in the redevelopment of the Rainier Vista site as shown in Attachment 2.

 1.14. "Rainier Vista Housing Units" means all units to be developed on site and off site as shown in Attachment 1.

 1.15. "SHA" means the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle.

 2. TERM OF THE AGREEMENT

 This Agreement shall remain in effect until SHA provides, and the City accepts, certification that the numbers and types of Replacement Units identified in the Rainier Vista Housing Plan have been produced and occupied by eligible tenants for a minimum of forty (40) years or longer if Federal Operating Subsidies are renewed, from the initial date of occupancy of each unit, unless earlier terminated or amended as provided in this Agreement.

 3. RAINIER VISTA HOUSING PLAN

 SHA shall comply with the Rainier Vista Housing Plan as follows:

 3.1. Rainier Vista Housing Plan

 The Rainier Vista Housing Plan consists of Attachment 1 and Section 3 of this Agreement.

 3.2. Maximum Number of On-site Housing Units

 SHA may redevelop the Rainier Vista Site either acting on its own or through partners; however, the maximum number of units shall be limited to no more than 1,010 housing units as outlined in Attachment 3 to this Agreement. If any Partnership Units are developed on-site, the maximum number of units on-site shall still be limited to no more than 1,010 housing units.

 3.3. Affordability, Number & Configuration of Replacement Units

 SHA shall either itself or in partnership with other non-profit housing organizations develop a minimum of 481 Replacement Units as shown in Attachment 2 to replace the 481 public housing units demolished in the redevelopment of the Rainier Vista Site.

 The 481 Replacement Units shall be affordable to public housing eligible households, with a minimum of one hundred percent (100%) of the units available to households at or below thirty percent (30%) of median income at the time of initial occupancy by each household.

 The 481 Replacement Units shall be available for occupancy for a minimum of forty (40) years from the initial date of occupancy or longer if Federal Operating Subsidies are renewed. If Federal Operating Subsidies, including both public housing and Section 8 operating subsidies, are reduced and SHA determines that this reduction in funding necessitates a reduction in the number of units available to households at or below 30% of median income SHA and the City Council shall renegotiate the affordability requirements of this Agreement to determine whether the percentage of units affordable at or below thirty percent (30%) of median income should be reduced or whether other funding sources are available to maintain affordability requirements of this Agreement.

 The bedroom configuration of the 410 on-site Replacement Units shall be no smaller than one bedroom in size as depicted in Attachment 4 of this Agreement, subject to 20% adjustment in any category except for one-bedroom units, which may not be increased above the amount shown in Attachment 4.

 3.4. Relocation of Existing Rainier Vista Residents

 SHA will ensure that existing residents in good standing as of the time of SHA's Hope VI award (August 19, 1999) can return to Rainier Vista after completion of the redevelopment, stay in the Rainier Valley, or stay in the city, as determined by the household and consistent with SHA's agreement with the Rainier Vista Leadership Team. SHA will work with the Rainier Vista Leadership team to develop screening criteria that will apply to new residents of the redeveloped Rainier Vista Site. All existing residents as of August 19, 1999 who remain in good standing and wish to return to the site will be exempted from adhering to the new screening criteria.

 3.5. Annual Production Targets

 SHA shall satisfy the Annual Production Targets as specified in Attachment 1. SHA shall provide certification satisfactory to OH that the Annual Production Targets for each year have been met (i.e., that the housing units have been completed) by December 31 of such year, beginning in 2002 and continuing through 2007.

 3.6. Partnership Units

 Partnership Units shall be developed subject to the following conditions:

 3.6.1. Funding and Operating Subsidies

 Non-profit housing organizations developing any of the up to 71 Partnership Units on- or off the Rainier Vista Site may apply for City, State, or any other public or private funds; provided that City funds (including, but not limited to Housing Levy, CDBG, HOME funds) used in the development of Partnership Units shall not exceed Two Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,500,000). The use of City Funds for these units is contingent on the passage of the Housing Levy Renewal measure in 2002 and contingent on Council and Executive review and approval of the project finance plan. City operating subsidies shall not be available for Partnership Units. The City may contribute funding to non-profit housing developers not to exceed the amount of subsidy that OH determines would be required to make the development of Partnership Units feasible with rents affordable to households with annual incomes at fifty percent (50%) of median income. SHA shall provide capital funds, Federal Operating Subsidies or both, in amounts acceptable to participating non-profit organizations and OH, to make Partnership Units affordable to households with incomes at or below thirty percent (30%) of median income while generating adequate cash flow to support the project operations.

 3.6.2. NOFA Process

 Non-profit housing developers of Rainier Vista Replacement Units who apply for City of Seattle subsidy will have their projects reviewed through the OH-administered NOFA process for multifamily housing projects.

 Non-profit housing developers of Rainier Vista Replacement Units may be procured using SHA's Request for Proposals process. A staff person from OH will assist SHA in evaluating proposals.

 3.6.3. Type and Location

 Replacement Units that SHA develops either itself or that are developed by non-profit housing organizations must be located within the Seattle City limits. Replacement Units may be developed via new construction or acquisition and rehabilitation of existing buildings not in the ownership of SHA; provided that 1) no displacement of existing tenants occurs; and 2) there is a net addition of housing units affordable to households with incomes at or below 30% of median income.

 3.7. On-site, Affordable For-Sale Housing

 To the maximum extent financially feasible, SHA shall explore and utilize mechanisms (such as land trusts, shared appreciation, right of first refusal provisions, etc.) for maintaining the long term affordability of the affordable, for-sale housing units developed at Rainier Vista. If these units are developed by other developers, SHA shall work with such developers to utilize mechanisms for assuring the long term affordability of this housing. A maximum of up to Two Million Four Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,400,000) shall be used for downpayment assistance for the affordable for-sale housing units; however, these City Funds are not a set-aside or guaranteed for Rainier Vista and are subject to the following requirements 1) the use of City Funds for these units is contingent on the passage of the Housing Levy Renewal measure in 2002; 2) contingent on Council and Executive review and approval of the project finance plan; 3) shall be available on a competitive basis through the OH-administered NOFA process for downpayment assistance; 4) the first one-half of these City Funds ($1,200,000) will be made available through the NOFA process; and 5) the remaining one-half ($1,200,000) will be made available only if the first one-half has been fully used.

 3.8. Funding For High Performance Energy And Water Efficient Housing

 SHA and other developers of housing on the Rainier Vista Site may access funds from the City's Built Smart program and other conservation programs for the purposes of employing sustainable building practices that result in the development of high performance energy and water efficient housing at Rainier Vista.

 4. RAINIER VISTA REDEVELOPMENT

 4.1. Site Design and Development Issues

 The City and SHA acknowledge that the site design and development issues, including open space, parking, tree preservation, stormwater retention, green building, sustainability, energy conservation, adequacy of infrastructure and traffic mitigation, are subject to existing regulations and policies and will be addressed through the various permitting, subdivision and street vacation processes required for the redevelopment as well as SEPA and NEPA environmental review.

 SHA will incorporate Crime Prevention Through Environment Design (CPTED) principles into the Rainier Vista design. To the maximum extent financially feasible, SHA will employ the King County Master Builders Association Built Green 3-Star Level rating, and green building and universal design principles in the redevelopment of Rainier Vista. The City shall work with SHA to provide incentives, including possible funding to encourage the use of sustainable building practices. SHA shall provide status reports on its achievement of these ratings and standards in its annual reports to the City.

 4.2. Public Involvement

 SHA will continue to involve Rainier Vista residents and the neighboring community in the planning of the site redevelopment.

 4.3. Permit Fees

 SHA or its partners shall be responsible for paying all permit fees associated with the redevelopment of Rainier Vista including but not limited to: building permits, inspection permits, etc.

 4.4. Affirmative Action

 SHA shall seek to meet employment goals for the entire Rainier Vista Redevelopment of not less than 21% minorities and 20% women; and an employment subgoal of 4.5% for minority women.

 5. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

 SHA shall submit an annual report to OH and the City Council that includes information on project performance, schedule, design, tracking of relocation of tenants as of the time of the HOPE VI award, status in achieving the sustainable/green building ratings and standards and universal design principles as required in Section 4.1, replacement housing progress including names of partners (if applicable), location of project, number of units and unit sizes, and date of initial occupancy both anticipated and actual. SHA shall work with OH to prepare an annual report to the City Council.

 6. NOTICE AFFECTING PERFORMANCE

 SHA shall notify the Director of OH of any matters affecting the eligibility or capacity ability of SHA to continue performance of this Agreement, or to comply with any provision hereof, immediately after SHA's discovery of the same.

 7. ACCESS TO RECORDS; AUDITS

 The City shall have access at any time during normal business hours and as often as necessary, after reasonable notice in advance to SHA, to any books, records, documents, accounts, files, reports, and other property and papers of SHA relating to Rainier Vista redevelopment project for the purpose of making an audit, survey, examination, excerpt, or transcript.

 8. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 8.1. Amendment

 No modification to or amendment of this Agreement shall be effective unless the authorized representatives of SHA and the City execute a written amendment, which will be subject to public notice and comment and approval by the City Council by ordinance.

 8.2. Choice of Law

 This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Washington.

 8.3. Captions

 The Section captions used in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions of this Agreement.

 8.4. Gender

 The use of any gender herein shall be deemed to include the other gender, and the use of the singular herein shall be deemed to include the plural and vice-versa, wherever appropriate.

 8.5. Severability

 The invalidity of any clause, part, or provision of the Agreement shall not affect the validity of all remaining portions thereof that are severable from the invalid clause, part, or provision.

 8.6. Default and Remedies

 8.6.1. The City's Rights

 The following are events of default by SHA under this Agreement:

 (a) Failure by SHA to comply with any term or provision of this Agreement within ninety (90) days of written notification from the City of SHA's breach or nonperformance of any term or condition; provided that if the breach or nonperformance cannot reasonably be cured within ninety (90) days then so long as SHA is diligently pursuing cure and such cure is completed within a reasonable period, it shall not be an event of default.

 (b) An event of default under any City Contribution Agreement.

 (c) An event of default under any other financing document.

 Upon the occurrence of an event of default by SHA:

 (a) The City may cease making disbursements and providing credits, facilities, equipment and services from all City Funds under this Agreement and any City Contribution Agreement;

 (b) Upon demand by the City, SHA shall pay the City an amount equivalent to the value of all City Funds that have been provided under this Agreement or any City Contribution Agreement;

 (c) The City may terminate this Agreement; and

 (d) The City may seek specific performance.

 The remedies set forth above and in the City Contribution Agreements are cumulative, not mutually exclusive, and not in substitution for any rights or remedies available at law or in equity, including, but not limited to, specific performance. The commencement of proceedings to enforce a particular remedy shall not preclude the discontinuance of the proceedings and the commencement of proceedings to enforce a different remedy.

 8.6.2. SHA's Rights

 If the City fails to perform any material obligation under this Agreement within ninety (90) days of written notification from SHA of the City's breach or nonperformance, SHA may exercise such rights or remedies available at law or equity; provided that SHA shall not pursue any such rights or remedies if the breach or nonperformance cannot reasonably be cured within ninety (90) days and the City is diligently pursuing cure.

 8.7. Non-Waiver

 Failure to promptly enforce compliance with any term or provision of this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver or limitation of any right or remedy under this Agreement. No waiver shall be effective unless in writing. A waiver of any breach of this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same or different provision of this Agreement.

 8.8. No Assignment

 Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, neither SHA nor the City shall assign any of its rights or interests or delegate any of its obligations or duties under this Agreement without the prior written approval of the other. SHA's role in the redevelopment of Rainier Vista, as contemplated by this Agreement, constitutes material consideration to the City, without which the City would not have authorized the funding contemplated by this Agreement.

 8.9. Notice

 Any notice provided for under this Agreement shall be sufficient if in writing and delivered personally to the following addressee or deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, certified mail, return-receipt requested, addressed as follows, or to such other address as the receiving party specifies in writing:

 If to the City: Director City of Seattle Office of Housing 8th Floor Alaska Building 618 Second Avenue Seattle, Washington 98104

 If to SHA: Executive Director Seattle Housing Authority 120 Sixth Avenue North Seattle, Washington 98109

 9. ATTACHMENTS

 Attachment 1: Rainier Vista Housing Plan - Annual Production Targets Attachment 2: Replacement Units Attachment 3: Number and Type of On-site Housing Units at Rainier Vista Attachment 4: Number and Unit Configuration of Replacement Units [Attachment 5 Rainier Vista Site Map](/~ordpics/113811a5.gif) Attachment 6: Legal Descriptions

 Executed the dates shown below: THE CITY OF SEATTLE SEATTLE HOUSING AUTHORITY By:____________________________ By:___________________________ ____________________________ ___________________________ Print Name and Title Print Name and Title Date:__________________________ Date:_________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ___ day of ___________, 2001 , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ___________________, known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the ____________ of The City of Seattle, the Washington municipal corporation named in and which executed the foregoing document, and stated on oath that he was authorized to execute the foregoing document on behalf of said municipal corporation and signed the same as the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written. ________________________________________ Print Name:______________________________ NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at_____________________ My commission expires_____________________ (seal or stamp)

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss. COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ___ day of ___________, 2001 , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ___________________, known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the ____________ of The Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, a public body corporate impolitic named in and which executed the foregoing document, and stated on oath that he was authorized to execute the foregoing document on behalf of said municipal corporation and signed the same as the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written. ________________________________________ Print Name:______________________________ NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at_____________________ My commission expires_____________________ (seal or stamp)

 10/15/01 V #10 ATTACHMENT 1 Rainier Vista Housing Unit Plan Annual Production Targets

 Unit Type Affordability Date Completed Total Units 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006

 On-Site Housing Units

 Public Housing/SHA 0-30% MI 120 190 310 Section 202 Elderly Housing 0-30% MI 78 78 Section 811 Disabled Housing 0-30% MI 22 22 Affordable Rental Housing 0-80% MI 28 72 100 Affordable For-Sale Housing 0-80% MI 100 100 200 Market Rate For-Sale Housing Market Rate 150 150 300

 On- or Off-Site Housing Units Partnership Units 0-30% MI 20 15 15 15 6 71

 Total Units 20 93 185 265 518 1081

 MI = Median Income

 *Note: Per Section 3 of the Agreement, 100% of the 481 Replacement Units must be affordable to households at or below 30% of median income.

 ATTACHMENT 2 Replacement Units

 Unit Type Affordability* Total Units

 On-Site Replacement Units Public Housing/SHA 0-30% MI 310 Section 202 Elderly Housing 0-30% MI 78 Section 811 Disabled Housing 0-30% MI 22

 On- or Off-Site Replacement Units Partnership Units 0-30% MI 71

 Total Replacement Units 481

 MI = Median Income

 *Note: Per Section 3 of the Agreement, 100% of the 481 Replacement Units must be affordable to households at or below 30% of median income. ATTACHMENT 3 On-Site Housing Units

 Unit Type Affordability* Total Units

 On-Site Housing Units Public Housing/SHA 0-30% MI 310 Section 202 Elderly Housing 0-30% MI 78 Section 811 Disabled Housing 0-30% MI 22 Affordable Rental Housing 0-80% MI 100 Affordable For-Sale Housing 0-80% MI 200 Market Rate For-Sale Housing Market Rate 300

 Total Units On-Site 1010

 MI = Median Income

 *Note: Per Section 3 of the Agreement, 100% of the 481 Replacement Units must be affordable to households at or below 30% of median income. ATTACHMENT 4 Number and Configuration of On-Site Replacement Units

 Configuration of Existing Proposed Difference Units 1 Bedroom 76 140* +64 2 Bedroom 282 121 -161 3 Bedroom 123 99 -24 4 Bedroom 0 45 +45 5 Bedroom 0 5 +5

 Total Units 481 410* and ** -71

 (71 Partnership Units will be developed on- or off-site, but none of these units may be smaller than 1 bedroom units and at least 36 units must be 2-bedroom units)

 * Note: This number includes 78 housing units to be developed by Providence Health Systems and 22 housing units to be developed by Housing Resources Group.

 ** Note: Per Section 3.3 of this Agreement, the bedroom configuration of the 410 on-site Replacement Units shall be no smaller than one bedroom in size as depicted in Attachment 4 of this Agreement, subject to 20% adjustment in any category except for one-bedroom units, which may not be increased above the amount shown in Attachment 4.

 ATTACHMENT 6 Legal Descriptions

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR RAINIER VISTA SITE

 THAT PORTION OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 24 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, LYING WITHIN THE FOLLOWING DESCRIBED AREAS:

 AREA "A"

 BEGINNING AT THE MOST SOUTHERLY CORNER OF PARCEL "A" AS DEPICTED ON RECORD OF SURVEY FOR SEATTLE HOUSING AUTHORITY - RAINIER VISTA, RECORDED IN BOOK 106 OF SURVEYS, PAGES 215A THROUGH 215I, UNDER RECORDING NUMBER 9512079003, RECORDS OF KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON;

 THENCE NORTH 22 degrees 23' 23" WEST ALONG THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAID PARCEL "A" 668.36 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 09 degrees 21' 42" EAST ALONG THE WESTERLY LINE OF SAID PARCEL "A" 1747.51 FEET TO THE NORTH LINE OF SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SAID SECTION 16;

 THENCE SOUTH 87 degrees 52' 45" EAST ALONG SAID NORTH LINE 286.65 FEET TO THE CENTERLINE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING JUNIOR WAY SOUTH, ALSO KNOWN AS EMPIRE WAY SOUTH;

 THENCE SOUTH 00 degrees 48' 48" WEST ALONG SAID CENTERLINE 380.70 FEET TO A POINT OF CURVE;

 THENCE SOUTHERLY ALONG SAID CENTERLINE AND ON SAID CURVE TO THE LEFT, HAVING A RADIUS OF 1055.16 FEET, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 15 degrees 08' 37", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 278.89 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT A";

 THENCE CONTINUING ALONG SAID CENTERLINE AND ON SAID CURVE TO THE LEFT, HAVING

 A RADIUS OF 1055.16 FEET, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 00 degrees 34' 19", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 10.54 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 74 degrees 27' 36" WEST 176.93 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 14' 54" EAST 455.21 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT B";

 THENCE SOUTH 66 degrees 28' 42" WEST 131.00 FEET TO A POINT ON A CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS SOUTH 18 degrees 56' 51" EAST, 397.34 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE LEFT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 19 degrees 55' 37", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 138.19 FEET TO A POINT OF COMPOUND CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS SOUTH 38 degrees 52' 27" EAST 397.34 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE LEFT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 13 degrees 41' 28", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 128.13 FEET TO A POINT OF COMPOUND CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS SOUTH 49 degrees 24' 55" EAST 373.87 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE LEFT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 39 degrees 35' 34", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 258.35 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 87 degrees 02' 53" WEST 121.67 FEET TO A POINT ON A CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS SOUTH 89 degrees 48' 24" EAST 485.16 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTHERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE LEFT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 43 degrees 32' 21", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 368.68 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 67 degrees 09' 24" EAST 15.93 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 30 degrees 41' 44" EAST 84.91 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 59 degrees 44' 29" WEST 6.00 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 30 degrees 03' 18" EAST 363.10 FEET TO A POINT ON A CURVE, HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT C";

 THE CENTER WHICH BEARS SOUTH 01 degrees 05' 07" WEST 540.00 FEET,

 THENCE WESTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE RIGHT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 18 degrees 56' 40", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 178.55 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 22 degrees 23' 23" WEST 11.05 FEET TO THE TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (CONTAINING 611,391 SQ. FT. OR 14.04 ACRES MORE OR LESS)

 AREA B

 BEGINNING AT AFOREMENTIONED "POINT B";

 THENCE SOUTH 66 degrees 28' 42" WEST 131.00 FEET TO A POINT ON A CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS SOUTH 18 degrees 56' 51" EAST, 397.34 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE LEFT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 19 degrees 55' 37", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 138.19 FEET TO A POINT OF COMPOUND CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS SOUTH 38 degrees 52' 27" EAST 536.22 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE LEFT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 13 degrees 41' 28", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 128.13 FEET TO A POINT OF COMPOUND CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS SOUTH 51 degrees 48' 01" EAST 373.87 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE LEFT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 39 degrees 35' 34", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 258.35 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 87 degrees 02' 53" WEST 121.67 FEET TO A POINT ON A CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS SOUTH 89 degrees 48' 24" EAST 485.16 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTHERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE LEFT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 43 degrees 32' 21", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 368.68 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 67 degrees 09' 24" EAST 15.93 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 30 degrees 41' 44" EAST 84.91 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 59 degrees 44' 29" WEST 6.00 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 30 degrees 03' 18" EAST 363.10 FEET TO A POINT ON A CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS SOUTH 01 degrees 05' 07" WEST 540.00 FEET AND TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT C";

 THENCE EASTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE RIGHT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 04 degrees 11' 27", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 39.50 FEET TO THE NORTHEASTERLY MARGIN OF ALASKA STREET;

 THENCE CONTINUING EASTERLY ALONG SAID NORTHEASTERLY MARGIN AND ON SAID CURVE TO THE RIGHT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 25 degrees 00' 28", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 235.69 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 59 degrees 42' 58" EAST ALONG SAID NORTHEASTERLY MARGIN 265.25 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT D";

 THENCE NORTH 34 degrees 12' 48" EAST 139.21 FEET TO A POINT ON A CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS NORTH 15 degrees 33' 53" EAST 32.50 FEET;

 THENCE NORTHWESTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE RIGHT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 41 degrees 25' 57", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 23.50 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 19' 32" WEST 588.96 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 17 degrees 40' 46" WEST 70.97 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 14 degrees 36' 26" WEST 15.60 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 20 degrees 45' 45" WEST 29.61 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 27' 06" WEST 71.52 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 18 degrees 38' 21" WEST 67.11 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 22 degrees 39' 45" WEST 155.70 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 27 degrees 58' 47" WEST 29.85 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 65 degrees 58' 58" EAST 140.72 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 36' 09" WEST 277.33 FEET, TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT B" AND TO THE TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (CONTAINING 623,501 SQ. FT. OR 14.31 ACRES MORE OR LESS)

 AREA C

 BEGINNING AT AFOREMENTIONED "POINT D";

 THENCE NORTH 34 degrees 12' 48" EAST 139.21 FEET TO A POINT ON A CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS NORTH 15 degrees 33' 53" EAST 32.50 FEET;

 THENCE NORTHWESTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE RIGHT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 41 degrees 25' 57", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 23.50 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 19' 32" WEST 588.96 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 17 degrees 40' 46" WEST 70.97 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 14 degrees 36' 26" WEST 15.60 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 20 degrees 45' 45" WEST 29.61 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 27' 06" WEST 71.52 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 18 degrees 38' 21" WEST 67.11 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 22 degrees 39' 45" WEST 155.70 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 27 degrees 58' 47" WEST 29.85 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 65 degrees 58' 58" EAST 140.72 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 36' 09" WEST 277.33 FEET, TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT B";

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 14' 54" WEST 455.21 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 74 degrees 27' 36" EAST 176.93 FEET TO THE CENTERLINE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING JUNIOR WAY SOUTH, ALSO KNOWN AS EMPIRE WAY SOUTH AND A POINT ON A CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS NORTH 75 degrees 05' 51" EAST 1055.16 FEET;

 THENCE NORTHERLY ALONG SAID CENTERLINE AND ON SAID CURVE TO THE RIGHT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 0 degrees 34' 19", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 10.54 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT A";

 THENCE SOUTH 87 degrees 50' 56" EAST 47.02 FEET TO THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF PARCEL "D" AS SHOWN ON SAID RECORD OF SURVEY;

 THENCE NORTH 87 degrees 50' 56" EAST ALONG THE NORTH LINE OF SAID PARCEL "D" 92.14 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT E";

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 14' 54" EAST 381.41 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 66 degrees 45' 06" EAST 29.00 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT F";

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 06' 49" EAST 536.01 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 66 degrees 48' 22" EAST 290.20 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 15 degrees 26' 05" EAST 434.53 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 07 degrees 43' 05" EAST 30.08 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 04 degrees 01' 05" WEST 50.68 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 12 degrees 00' 50" WEST 26.06 FEET

 THENCE SOUTH 08 degrees 29' 52" WEST 11.58 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 01 degrees 28' 20" EAST 29.49 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 17 degrees 27' 01" EAST 32.64 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 25 degrees 23' 58" EAST 166.39 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 25 degrees 17' 31" EAST 108.21 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT G";

 THENCE SOUTH 25 degrees 17' 31" EAST 6.38 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 25 degrees 26' 44" EAST 267.61 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 18 degrees 25' 28" EAST 15.06 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 04 degrees 28' 29" EAST 15.06 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 02 degrees 30' 01" WEST 14.59 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT H";

 THENCE NORTH 87 degrees 27' 51" WEST 147.86 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 25 degrees 23' 49" WEST 294.79 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 25 degrees 16' 41" WEST 64.41 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 14' 54" WEST 141.88 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 04 degrees 53' 01" WEST 20.77 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 08 degrees 20' 30" EAST 29.45 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 84 degrees 48' 44" WEST 52.26 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 19' 21" WEST 110.41 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 22 degrees 16' 03" WEST 84.40 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 15' 03" WEST 145.80 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 66 degrees 45' 06" WEST 339.29 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 26' 57" EAST 192.55 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT I";

 THENCE SOUTH 59 degrees 52' 31" WEST 12.05 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 15' 03" EAST 166.21 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 66 degrees 45' 06" WEST 10.03 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 14' 53" EAST 228.31 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 66 degrees 45' 57" EAST 22.19 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT J";

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 14' 55" EAST 258.67 FEET TO THE NORTHERLY MARGIN OF ALASKA STREET AND A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT K";

 THENCE NORTH 87 degrees 48' 05" WEST ALONG SAID NORTHERLY MARGIN 77.82 FEET TO A POINT OF CURVE;

 THENCE WESTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE RIGHT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 28 degrees 05' 07", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 225.48 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 59 degrees 42' 58" WEST ALONG SAID NORTHERLY MARGIN 19.40 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT D" AND THE TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (CONTAINING 790,225 SQ. FT. OR 18.14 ACRES MORE OR LESS)

 AREA D

 BEGINNING AT AFOREMENTIONED "POINT I";

 THENCE NORTH 59 degrees 52' 31" EAST 170.29 FEET TO THE CENTERLINE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING JUNIOR WAY SOUTH, ALSO KNOWN AS EMPIRE WAY SOUTH;

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 15' 10" EAST ALONG SAID CENTERLINE 416.39 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 66 degrees 45' 57" WEST 168.90 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT J";

 THENCE SOUTH 66 degrees 45' 57" WEST 22.19 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 14' 53" WEST 228.31 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 66 degrees 45' 06" EAST 10.03 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 15' 03" WEST 166.21 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 59 degrees 52' 31" WEST 12.05 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT I" AND TO THE TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (CONTAINING 75,694 SQ. FT. OR 1.74 ACRES MORE OR LESS)

 AREA E1 AND E2

 BEGINNING AT AFOREMENTIONED "POINT I";

 THENCE NORTH 59 degrees 52' 31" EAST 170.29 FEET TO THE CENTERLINE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING JUNIOR WAY SOUTH, ALSO KNOWN AS EMPIRE WAY SOUTH;

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 15' 10" EAST ALONG SAID CENTERLINE 416.39 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT M";

 THENCE SOUTH 66 degrees 45' 57" WEST 168.90 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT J";

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 14' 55" EAST 258.67 FEET TO THE NORTHERLY MARGIN OF ALASKA STREET AND TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT K";

 THENCE SOUTH 87 degrees 48' 05" EAST ALONG SAID NORTHERLY MARGIN 26.48 FEET TO MOST SOUTHERLY CORNER OF PARCEL "C" OF SAID RECORD OF SURVEY;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 15' 10" WEST ALONG THE EASTERLY LINE OF SAID PARCEL "C" 168.81 FEET TO AN ANGLE POINT THEREIN;

 THENCE NORTH 66 degrees 44' 50" EAST 145.00 FEET TO SAID CENTERLINE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING JUNIOR WAY SOUTH;

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 15' 10" EAST ALONG SAID CENTERLINE 233.59 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 88 degrees 56' 39" EAST 49.57 FEET TO EASTERLY MARGIN OF SAID MARTIN LUTHER KING JUNIOR WAY SOUTH AND TO A POINT ON A CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS NORTH 61 degrees 59' 44" EAST 50.00 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTHEASTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE LEFT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 59 degrees 46' 32", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 52.16 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 87 degrees 46' 48" EAST 234.81 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT L";

 THENCE NORTH 02 degrees 30' 01" EAST 122.40 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT H";

 THENCE NORTH 87 degrees 27' 51" WEST 147.86 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 25 degrees 23' 49" WEST 294.79 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT N";

 THENCE NORTH 25 degrees 16' 41" WEST 18.01 FEET TO A POINT HEREINAFTER CALLED "POINT N;

 THENCE NORTH 25 degrees 16' 41" WEST 46.40 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 14' 54" WEST 141.88 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 04 degrees 53' 01" WEST 20.77 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 08 degrees 20' 30" EAST 29.45 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 84 degrees 48' 44" WEST 52.26 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 19' 21" WEST 110.41 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 22 degrees 16' 03" WEST 84.40 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 15' 03" WEST 145.80 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 66 degrees 45' 06" WEST 339.29 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 26' 57" EAST 192.55 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT I" AND TO THE TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (CONTAINING 236,374 SQ. FT. OR 5.43 ACRES MORE OR LESS)

 AREA E1 IS DEFINED AS THE AREA CONTAINING THE NORTHERLY PORTION OF AFOREMENTIONED "AREA E" AS DEFINED BY A LINE FROM AFOREMENTIONED "POINT M" TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT N".

 AREA E2 IS DEFINED AS THE AREA CONTAINING THE SOUTHERLY PORTION OF AFOREMENTIONED "AREA E" AS DEFINED BY A LINE FROM AFOREMENTIONED "POINT M" TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT N".

 AREA F

 BEGINNING AT AFOREMENTIONED "POINT F";

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 06' 49" EAST 536.01 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 66 degrees 48' 22" EAST 290.20 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 15 degrees 26' 05" EAST 434.53 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 07 degrees 43' 05" EAST 30.08 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 04 degrees 01' 05" WEST 50.68 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 12 degrees 00' 50" WEST 26.06 FEET

 THENCE SOUTH 08 degrees 29' 52" WEST 11.58 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 01 degrees 28' 20" EAST 29.49 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 17 degrees 27' 01" EAST 32.64 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 25 degrees 23' 58" EAST 166.39 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 25 degrees 17' 31" EAST 108.21 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT G";

 THENCE NORTH 74 degrees 39' 41" EAST 116.56 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 15 degrees 43' 50" WEST 149.61 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 12 degrees 22' 45" WEST 143.18 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 83 degrees 02' 41" EAST 5.30 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 12 degrees 22' 45" WEST 148.53 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 55 degrees 38' 17" WEST 11.59 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 13 degrees 50' 46" WEST 583.64 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 87 degrees 51' 08" WEST 152.43 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 15 degrees 25' 56" WEST 135.31 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 87 degrees 31' 30" WEST 142.28 FEET TO A POINT ON A CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS NORTH 05 degrees 57' 44" EAST 298.92 FEET;

 THENCE NORTHWESTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE RIGHT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 37 degrees 37' 53", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 196.33 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 66 degrees 45' 06" WEST 80.64 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT F" AND TO THE TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (CONTAINING 291,441 SQ. FT. OR 6.69 ACRES MORE OR LESS)

 AREA G

 BEGINNING AT AFOREMENTIONED "POINT F";

 THENCE SOUTH 66 degrees 45' 06" WEST 29.00 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 23 degrees 14' 54" WEST 381.41 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT E" AND THE NORTH LINE OF PARCEL "D" OF SAID RECORD OF SURVEY;

 THENCE SOUTH 87 degrees 50' 56" EAST ALONG SAID NORTH LINE 117.93 FEET; (THE FOLLOWING (9) NINE COURSES ARE ALONG THE NORTHERLY AND EASTERLY BOUNDARY OF SAID PARCEL "D")

 THENCE SOUTH 23 degrees 15' 10" EAST 249.72 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 87 degrees 49' 30" EAST 611.70 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 10 degrees 30' 14" EAST 440.37 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 87 degrees 49' 30" EAST 191.65 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 10 degrees 18' 47" EAST 303.33 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 00 degrees 15' 59" EAST 669.48 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 68 degrees 16' 01" WEST 48.35 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 00 degrees 15' 59" EAST 113.30 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 89 degrees 44' 01" EAST 45.00 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 00 degrees 15' 59" EAST 185.76 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 87 degrees 46' 48" WEST 149.33 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT L";

 THENCE NORTH 02 degrees 30' 01" EAST 122.40 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT H";

 THENCE NORTH 02 degrees 30' 01" EAST 14.59 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 04 degrees 28' 29" WEST 15.06 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 18 degrees 25' 28" WEST 15.06 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 25 degrees 26' 44" WEST 267.61 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT G";

 THENCE NORTH 74 degrees 39' 41" EAST 116.56 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 15 degrees 43' 50" WEST 149.61 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 12 degrees 22' 45" WEST 143.18 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 83 degrees 02' 41" EAST 5.30 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 12 degrees 22' 45" WEST 148.53 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 55 degrees 38' 17" WEST 11.59 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 13 degrees 50' 46" WEST 583.64 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 87 degrees 51' 08" WEST 152.43 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 15 degrees 25' 56" WEST 135.31 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 87 degrees 31' 30" WEST 142.28 FEET TO A POINT ON A CURVE, THE CENTER WHICH BEARS NORTH 05 degrees 57' 44" EAST 298.92 FEET;

 THENCE NORTHWESTERLY ON SAID CURVE TO THE RIGHT, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 37 degrees 37' 53", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 196.33 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 66 degrees 45' 06" WEST 80.64 FEET TO AFOREMENTIONED "POINT F" AND TO THE

 TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (CONTAINING 433,306 SQ. FT. OR 9.95 ACRES MORE OR LESS)

```
