

********

**Council Bill Number: 113981**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120681**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the transfer of property located at 10 Broad Street in the City of Seattle to the Museum Development Authority.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 10, 2001
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Licata, Nicastro)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 14, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 14, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Sculpture Park

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 26, 2001
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget and Economic Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, PUBLIC-ART, PUBLIC-CORPORATIONS, MUSEUMS, VISUAL-ARTS, CENTRAL-WATERFRONT, OPEN-SPACE-LAND

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the transfer of property located at 10 Broad Street in the City of Seattle to the Museum Development Authority.

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 120305 the City acquired property located at 10 Broad Street ("10 Broad Street Property") in the City of Seattle for park and open space purposes as part of the Facility Development Program/Olympic Sculpture Park - Development and Public Improvements (Program K721001/Project K731006); and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120305 authorized the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into negotiations with the Seattle Art Museum ("SAM") and/or the Museum Development Authority ("MDA") to develop such agreements as may be necessary to provide for SAM and/or the MDA to remove a structure and impermeable surface from the 10 Broad Street Property and to subsequently transfer the 10 Broad Street Property to the MDA for incorporation into the Olympic Sculpture Park, provided that any such transfer shall restrict use and development of the 10 Broad Street Property to park and open space uses as specified in an amendment to the interlocal cooperation agreement between the City and King County that governs the use of conservation futures levy proceeds ("Interlocal Agreement"); and

 WHEREAS, the Superintendent and the MDA have negotiated terms of transfer of the 10 Broad Street Property to the MDA in accordance with Ordinance 120305 and the amendment to the Interlocal Agreement; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120305 provides that the requirements of Ordinance 118477 shall not apply to such transfer and directs that the transfer agreement be submitted to Council for its approval by ordinance; and

 WHEREAS, before execution of an agreement to transfer the 10 Broad Street Property to the MDA, the cooperation agreement dated October 1, 1994 between the City and the MDA concerning the MDA's Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 1994 must be amended to enable the MDA to expend funds for demolition and environmental work on the 10 Broad Street Property, and before amending the cooperation agreement, the City must receive a satisfactory legal opinion from the MDA's bond counsel; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Contingent on receipt of a written legal opinion addressed to the City and satisfactory to the Director of Finance from the MDA's bond counsel and contingent on City Council approval by ordinance of an amendment to the cooperation agreement between the City and the MDA dated October 1, 1994 concerning the MDA's Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 1994, the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to execute the Property Transfer Agreement attached to this ordinance as Attachment 1 and incorporated herein by reference. Also contingent upon receipt of such legal opinion and contingent on City Council approval of the amendment to the cooperation agreement referred to above, the Superintendent is authorized to execute such other documents as he deems necessary or desirable to accomplish the transfer of the 10 Broad Street Property to the MDA in accordance with the Property Transfer Agreement. Ordinance 118477 shall not apply to the transfer.

 Section 2. The 10 Broad Street Property, which is legally described as follows:

 Parcel No. 1: Lots 3 and 4, Block 5, William N. Bell's Seventh Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the Plat thereof recorded in volume 2 of Plats, page 82, records of King County Washington; Excepting therefrom that portion platted as Seattle Tidelands; Also Excepting therefrom, that portion described as follows: Beginning at a point on the Southeasterly line of said Lot 3, distant 14.408 Southwesterly of the most Easterly corner of said Lot; Thence Northerly and Westerly along the arc of a curve to the left having a radius of 24 feet, an arc distance of 27.83 feet to a point on the Northeasterly line of said Lot 3, distant 22 feet Northwesterly of said most Easterly corner; Thence Southeasterly along said Northeasterly line to said most Easterly corner; Thence southwesterly along the Southeasterly line of said Lot to the point of Beginning.

 Parcel No. 2: Lots 5 and 6, Block 168-B, Supplemental Plat of Seattle Tidelands, as shown on the Official Maps of Seattle Tidelands on file in the office of the Commissioner of Public Lands at Olympia, Washington.

 shall be part of the Olympic Sculpture Park and shall be restricted in perpetuity to park and open space uses in accordance with the requirements of the interlocal agreement between the City and King County governing use of conservation futures levy proceeds.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance, including, without limitation, execution of the Property Transfer Agreement, is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2001. _____________________________________ President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2001. ___________________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2001. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment 1: Property Transfer Agreement and Exhibits A-D. 12/03/01 (Ver. 3 )t Ordinance Attachment 1

 PROPERTY TRANSFER AGREEMENT

 This Property Transfer Agreement ("Agreement") is made and dated the _____ day of ____________, 200_ by and between The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ( the "City"), and the Museum Development Authority, a Washington public authority chartered by the City ("MDA") for the transfer of the real property described on Exhibit A ("10 Broad Street") to MDA.

 RECITALS

 A. MDA and the City have historically worked with the Seattle Art Museum, a Washington nonprofit corporation ("SAM") to fund, develop and operate museum facilities in Seattle.

 B. SAM is planning a new facility to be known as the Olympic Sculpture Park ("Project"). The Project, which is described on Exhibit B, will be dedicated to the exhibition of public art and sculpture in an outdoor park setting for the benefit of the public. The Project will be free and open to the public with the exception of scheduled closings for special events and property management responsibilities.

 C. Currently, the Project includes Parcel A, Parcel B, and Parcel C, as legally described on Exhibit C, which are owned by SAM. 10 Broad Street is immediately adjacent to Parcel B.

 D. SAM, MDA and the City determined that acquisition, development and use of 10 Broad Street for a portion of the Project would preserve scenic views of Elliott Bay and enhance the value to the public of a larger abutting park (including the Project on Parcels A, B and C and Myrtle Edwards Park). To accomplish this goal, SAM negotiated for the purchase of 10 Broad Street, and SAM and/or MDA paid for the expenses related to the acquisition and environmental due diligence that was completed prior to the purchase, including without limitation the majority of the transactional costs associated with negotiating the Prospective Purchaser Consent Decree with the Department of Ecology entered May 17, 2001 under King County Superior Court Case Number 01-2-13878 2SEA (the "PPA"). The City, pursuant to authority of Ordinance 120305, acquired 10 Broad Street for park and open space purposes for a purchase price of Three Million Five Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($3,560,000). SAM contributed Five Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($560,000) towards the purchase price. The City has applied to King County for One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) in conservation futures levy proceeds to reimburse amounts expended for the purchase from the City's Cumulative Reserve Subfund.

 E. 10 Broad Street is located along the Seattle central waterfront in one of King County's most densely populated neighborhoods and currently its fastest growing. Acquisition and protection of 10 Broad Street for open space purposes will benefit the public by preventing redevelopment of 10 Broad Street that could compromise views and impair public access to and enjoyment of the adjacent Project on Parcels A, B and C, which itself adjoins the City's Myrtle Edwards Park.

 F. Pursuant to Ordinance 120305, the Seattle City Council authorized the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation (the "Parks Superintendent") to enter into good faith negotiations to transfer 10 Broad Street to MDA for incorporation into the Project. Ordinance 120305 further provides that the requirements of Ordinance 118477 shall not apply to such transfer.

 AGREEMENT

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and conditions contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, MDA and the City agree as follows:

 1. Transfer. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, the City agrees to transfer and convey 10 Broad Street to MDA pursuant to a deed in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D and incorporated herein by reference (the "Deed"). The City represents and warrants that it has not created any liens or encumbrances on 10 Broad Street since it acquired title to 10 Broad Street, and the City covenants not to permit or create any further liens on 10 Broad Street prior to Closing except for such liens or encumbrances that may arise in connection with MDA's or SAM's work on 10 Broad Street pursuant to any rights of entry granted to either or both of them.

 2. Conditions Precedent to Transfer. The obligation of the City to transfer 10 Broad Street under this Agreement is subject to fulfillment of the following conditions to the City's reasonable satisfaction. The conditions are for the benefit of the City and shall not be deemed waived or satisfied until accepted or waived in writing by the City:

 2.1 Interlocal Cooperation Agreement. King County and the City shall have entered into an Amendment to the Conservation Futures Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between King County and The City of Seattle for Open Space Projects (hereafter "Conservation Futures Amendment") concerning allocation of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) of 2000 Conservation Futures Levy proceeds to support acquisition of 10 Broad Street.

 2.2 Reimbursement. The City shall have received One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) of 2000 Conservation Futures Levy proceeds from King County to reimburse an appropriation from the Cumulative Reserve Subfund Unrestricted Subaccount (Fund 0164) utilized for acquisition of 10 Broad Street.

 3. City Obligations.

 3.1 Interlocal Cooperation Agreement. The City shall diligently pursue negotiation of the Conservation Futures Amendment concerning allocation of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) of 2000 Conservation Futures Levy proceeds to support acquisition of 10 Broad Street. Upon completion of negotiations, the Parks Superintendent shall promptly introduce legislation to the City Council authorizing the Mayor to execute the Conservation Futures Amendment and authorizing acceptance of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) from King County

 3.2 Right of Entry. If prior to Closing (defined in Subsection 4.1 below) MDA determines that it is advisable to proceed with additional investigations of and work on 10 Broad Street pursuant to the PPA, then upon request by MDA the Parks Superintendent shall issue a right of entry, in form and substance satisfactory to the Parks Superintendent and MDA, for such investigations and work.

 4. Closing.

 4.1 Time for Closing. Closing shall occur no later than thirty (30) days after satisfaction or waiver of the City's conditions precedent set forth in Section 2 above. Closing means the date on which the executed and acknowledged Deed is delivered to MDA.

 4.2 Documents and Actions. The City shall execute and deliver the Deed to MDA together with a real estate excise tax affidavit. MDA shall be responsible for recording the Deed.

 4.3 Possession. MDA shall be entitled to possession of 10 Broad Street at Closing.

 5. Notice. All notices, demands or requests that may be or are required to be given by one party to the other under this Agreement shall be given in writing and delivered personally, or sent by United States Certified Mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or nationally recognized overnight air carrier, and addressed as follows:

 MDA's address for notices: Dorothy Mann Chair Museum Development Authority C/o Chris Rogers 100 University Street Seattle, WA 98101

 With a copy to: Gerry Johnson Preston Gates & Ellis LLP 701 Fifth Avenue Suite 5000 Seattle, WA 98104-7078

 The City's address for notices: Kenneth R. Bounds Superintendent Department of Parks and Recreation 100 Dexter Avenue North Seattle, WA 98109-5199

 With a copy to: Judy Nevins Seattle City Attorneys' Office 600 Fourth Avenue, 10th Floor Seattle, WA 98104

 Notices shall be deemed to have been given upon receipt or attempted delivery where delivery is not accepted. Either party may change its address upon written notice given to the other.

 6. Termination. Failure by MDA to comply with any of the Environmental Agreement among MDA, SAM and the City fully executed as of May 24, 2001 (the "Environmental Agreement") or the PPA shall entitle the City to terminate this Agreement upon giving thirty (30) days written notification to MDA of such failure; provided that if the breach or nonperformance cannot reasonably be cured within thirty (30) days then so long as MDA is diligently pursuing cure and such cure is completed within a reasonable period, the City shall not terminate this Agreement.

 7. Limitation of MDA's Liability. MDA is organized pursuant to Ordinance 103389, as amended, of the City of Seattle in Chapter 37, Laws of 1974, First Extraordinary Session (43d Leg., 3d Ex. Sess.). Chapter 37, Laws of 1974, First Extraordinary Session (43d Leg., 3d Ex. Sess.) provided as follows:

 All liabilities incurred by such public corporation, commission or authority shall be satisfied exclusively from the assets in credit of such public corporation, commission or authority and no creditor or other person shall have any right of action against the city, town or county creating such corporation, commission or authority on account of any debts, obligations or liability of such public corporation commission or authority.

 8. Miscellaneous.

 8.1 Successors and Assigns. No party to this Agreement may assign its rights and/or obligations under this Agreement without the approval of the other parties to this Agreement. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of MDA and the City and their respective successors and assigns.

 8.2 Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid or unenforceable, then that provision and the remainder of this Agreement shall continue in effect and be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. It is the intention of the parties that if any provision of this Agreement is capable of two constructions, one of which would render the provision void, and the other of which would render the provision valid, then the provision shall have the meaning that renders it valid.

 8.3 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington.

 8.4 No Waiver. Failure of any party to enforce any provision of this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver under this Agreement. No waiver by any party of any breach of any provision of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of a breach of any other provision of this Agreement or a consent to any subsequent breach of the same or any other provision. If any action of any party requires the consent or approval of the other parties, consent or approval given on one occasion shall not be deemed a consent to or approval of that action on any other occasion. No extension of time for performance of any obligation or act shall be deemed an extension of the time for performance of any other obligation or act.

 8.5 Construction. Captions are solely for the convenience of the parties and are not a part of this Agreement. This Agreement shall not be construed as if it had been prepared by one of the parties, but rather as if all parties had prepared it.

 8.6 Time. Time is of the essence of every provision of this Agreement.

 8.7 Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies that any party may have under this Agreement or at law or in equity, upon any breach, are distinct, separate and cumulative and shall not be deemed inconsistent with each other, and no one of them shall be deemed to be exclusive of any other.

 8.8 Authority. Each party represents to the others that the person signing this Agreement on its behalf is properly authorized to do so.

 8.9 Survival. This Agreement, and the obligations set forth herein, do not supersede the obligations and agreements of the parties as set forth in the PPA and the Environmental Agreement.

 8.10 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, and each such counterpart shall be deemed to be an original instrument, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one agreement.

 8.11 Attorneys' and Consultants' Fees. In any action to enforce or interpret this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys' and consultants' fees in addition to any other relief to which such party may be entitled. In the event that the City Attorneys' hourly billing rate does not include overhead, including without limitation staff and clerical support and operations, the City shall also be entitled to recover its reasonable overhead costs directly related to legal work performed in such actions.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is executed on the day and year first above written.

 MDA:

 MUSEUM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington public authority chartered by the City of Seattle Date: __________________ By: _______________________ Name: _______________ Title: _______________

 CITY: CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation Date: __________________ By: __________________ Name: _____________ Title: ______________

 List of Exhibits:

 Exhibit A- Legal Description of 10 Broad Street Exhibit B- Project Description Exhibit C- Legal Description of Parcels A, B and C Exhibit D- Form of Deed

 STATE OF _______________ ) ) ss.

 COUNTY OF ______________ )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that ____________________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that s/he signed this instrument, on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the ______________________ [officer] of _____________________________, a ______________, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument. Dated: ________________________

 (Seal or stamp) ______________________________ (Signature) ________________________ (Printed Name)

 Notary Public

 My appointment expires ___________

 STATE OF _______________ )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF ______________ )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that ____________________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that s/he signed this instrument, on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the ______________________ [officer] of _____________________________, a ______________, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: ________________________

 (Seal or stamp) __________________ (Signature) _____________________ (Printed Name)

 Notary Public

 My appointment expires Exhibit A Legal Description of 10 Broad Street

 Parcel No. 1:

 Lots 3 and 4, Block 5, William N. Bell's Seventh Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, Page 82, records of King County, Washington;

 EXCEPTING therefrom that portion platted as Seattle Tidelands;

 ALSO EXCEPTING therefrom, that portion described as follows:

 BEGINNING AT A POINT on the Southeasterly line of said Lot 3, distant 14.408 feet Southwesterly of the most Easterly corner of said lot; thence Northerly and Westerly along the arc of a curve to the left having a radius of 24 feet, an arc distance of 27.83 feet to a point on the Northeasterly line of said Lot 3, distant 22 feet Northwesterly of said most Easterly corner; thence Southeasterly along said Northeasterly line to said most Easterly corner; thence Southwesterly along the Southeasterly line of said lot to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Parcel No. 2:

 Lots 5 and 6, Block 168-B, Supplemental Plat of Seattle Tidelands, as shown on the official maps of Seattle Tidelands on file in the Office of the Commissioner of Public Lands at Olympia, in King County, Washington. Exhibit B

 Program for the Olympic Sculpture Park October 2001

 Seattle Art Museum

 A New Waterfront Park

 Seattle is well known for the beauty of its physical landscape, from a stunning location on the shores of Puget Sound, to a well- known public art program that has shaped and will continue to strengthen the city's cultural environment. Seattle's interest in the natural environment and the visual arts was strengthened by a monumental effort to transform a former industrial site into a new 8-acre urban green space that will feature an unusually broad range of art works that take advantage of this unique setting.

 In 1998, the Seattle Art Museum, in partnership with the Trust for Public Land raised $16.5 million in private funds to purchase the largest undeveloped property on the downtown waterfront as the site of this new park. In the spring of 2001, the Seattle Art Museum, the City of Seattle and King County jointly purchased a second property, bringing the total land acquired for this new park to just over 6.0 acres.

 The Olympic Sculpture Park site has the added benefit of being adjacent to two public open spaces - an underutilized portion of the Alaskan Way street right-of-way and the city-owned, Myrtle Edwards Park. A design agreement between the Seattle Art Museum and the City of Seattle will ensure that the design of the Olympic Sculpture Park and the approximately 2.0 acre Alaskan Way right-of- way occur simultaneously. The design agreement gives the Seattle Art Museum the responsibility to oversee this design process, in partnership with City representatives and community stakeholders. There is a shared objective between the museum and the City to ensure that the construction of this new park space will occur simultaneously as well.

 This park will enable the Seattle Art Museum to collect and exhibit a wide range of art from the museum's collection as well as temporary exhibitions, commissioned artist projects and art-related educational programs. The park will provide visitors with an artistic experience that is different, yet complementary, to that currently provided at the museum's existing facilities: the downtown Seattle Art Museum and the Seattle Asian Art Museum in Volunteer Park. In the spring of 2001, the museum selected Weiss/Manfredi Architects (New York, NY) as the park's lead designers. Known for their strong integration of the architecture, landscape and urban design, Weiss/Manfredi architects will lead a broad design team in the development of this important civic space. When completed, the park join the ranks of Seattle's most celebrated cultural landmarks, including: Robert Venturi's downtown Seattle Art Museum building; Steven Holl's Saint Ignatius Chapel; Frank Gehry's Experience Music Project; Rem Koolhaas's Seattle Public Library; the Seattle Symphony's LMN-designed Benaroya Hall; and the Seattle Opera's and Pacific Northwest Ballet's Marion Oliver McCaw Hall, also being designed by LMN.

 The name "Olympic Sculpture Park," chosen by one of the project's lead donors, reflects the Seattle Art Museum's vision for its new park. It honors the site's remarkable vista of the Olympic Mountains across Puget Sound, and the museum's goal to build a community place where a broad range of art will be created, exhibited and interpreted. It is envisioned that the 8.0-acre Olympic Sculpture Park will open to the public in the summer of 2004

 Site Description

 Urban Context

 One-half mile from the Pike Place Market and only three blocks from the Seattle Center, the Olympic Sculpture Park will join a network of cultural and scenic facilities in Seattle's urban core. The park is located at the foot of Broad Street, at the juncture of the Belltown neighborhood and the central waterfront. Sloping downhill toward Elliott Bay, the park site follows a 40-foot grade change from Western Avenue to the waterfront. A railroad right-of-way that runs parallel to the shoreline through north downtown separates the Olympic Sculpture Park site from the waterfront.

 In recent years, Belltown has undergone a rapid transition as the fastest growing neighborhood in the city. Numerous high-rise condominium and apartment buildings have been or are currently being developed in the immediate vicinity of the Olympic Sculpture Park site. An estimated 4,500 new housing units will be added within the next few years. Development has been equally dramatic on the central waterfront, where traditional marine-related industry on the downtown piers has been augmented by tourist- oriented commercial enterprises. A new cruise ship terminal will bring thousands of short-term visitors to the waterfront each year. A number of high-tech companies have recently located new offices in the area. The Port of Seattle's headquarters at Pier 69 and the redevelopment of Pier 70 have contributed to the central waterfront's evolution into a thriving mixed-use district.

 Olympic Sculpture Park Site

 The Olympic Sculpture Park site was formerly a Union Oil of California (UNOCAL) fuel storage and transfer facility. The site was remediated by UNOCAL prior to its transfer to the museum. The Olympic Sculpture Park site consists of three discrete parcels. Two upland parcels roughly totaling 6.0 acres are bordered by Bay Street to the north, Broad Street to the south, Western Avenue to the east and the Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) railroad tracks to the west. The two upland parcels are divided by Elliott Avenue, a four-lane arterial. A 1.5-acre "Tidelands" parcel lies immediately west of the Alaskan Way seawall. The protection of the submerged Tidelands will provide uninterrupted views views of Puget Sound and the Olympic Mountains.

 Alaskan Way Right-of-Way

 The Alaskan Way right-of-way parcel is situated at the southernmost entry point to Myrtle Edwards Park, between Bay and Broad Streets. Alaskan Way, which is owned by the City of Seattle, is one of the most publicly accessible portions of the central waterfront. Yet it is currently a short-term metered parking lot that is used more often in the summer months and for special events at Myrtle Edwards Park.

 The Alaskan Way right-of-way also houses the northern terminus for the Waterfront Streetcar, operated by King County. This restored vintage streetcar travels between tourism destinations along the waterfront, Pioneer Square and the International District. A streetcar maintenance barn in the center of the right-of-way currently obstructs views of the waterfront and limits pedestrian movement within this area. The City of Seattle and King County are currently studying a potential extension of streetcar to the north and/or south that would serve a growing number of new businesses and residents. Relocation of the maintenance barn from the Alaskan Way right-of-way is essential to the creation of the new park.

 Myrtle Edwards Park

 Myrtle Edwards Park is one of Seattle's most popular parks. At nearly 9.0 acres, it is the largest public open space in downtown. The park was purchased by the City in the late 1960s and later named for Myrtle Edwards, a former president of the Seattle City Council who advocated for the preservation and enhancement of Seattle's beauty through the creation of new parks, landscaping and siting of outdoor sculpture.

 Myrtle Edwards Park, together with the adjoining Elliott Bay Park (owned and managed by the Port of Seattle), comprises a linear open space stretching over one mile along Elliott Bay. Most of the park's shoreline is armored with rock riprap, with the exception of one small sandy pocket beach that recalls a more natural Puget Sound shoreline. Myrtle Edwards Park was one of several sites selected for a 'salmon-friendly landscape design' workshop sponsored by Seattle Public Utilities (City of Seattle) to promote habitat improvements for anadramous fish under threat of extinction.

 Myrtle Edwards Park is heavily used for recreation, primarily jogging, bicycling and walking. A pedestrian path follows the shoreline throughout the length of the park. A bike path, the Elliott Bay Trail, also runs through the park, serving commuters and recreational riders. Public events, such as the annual Fourth of July fireworks, concerts, festivals, and walking and running races are held in the park. Michael Heizer's sculpture, Adjacent, Against, Upon, was installed in 1976 and remains a prominent feature of the park.

 Design Principles

 The following Design Principles will guide the Seattle Art Museum's development of the Olympic Sculpture Park.

 * The Olympic Sculpture Park will promote public art as a vital art form. The artistic program will ensure that a broad range of work can be exhibited at the site, including site-specific commissioned works, collected works and rotating exhibitions. An outdoor art experience for children will be an important component of the artistic program. A park pavilion will support these activities, as well as a range of educational programs, in an internal yet well-integrated environment.

 * The park will be a comfortable and inviting civic space. This unique visual arts facility will be a cultural and scenic destination for residents and visitors to King County. The park and its pavilion will be able to house a variety of community events, from seminars to celebrations. The park will be free and open to the public during normal hours of operation.

 * The park will take advantage of its spectacular physical setting. Dramatic views of Puget Sound, the Olympic Mountains and Seattle's downtown skyline will be created as key attributes of the park. Contextual physical elements - such as passing trains and marine activity - will also be recognized as positive gestures of the urban landscape. The park will improve public access to the waterfront and connections to surrounding streets and neighborhoods.

 * The park design will create a pedestrian-friendly, contiguous waterfront open space. A comprehensive design of the Olympic Sculpture Park the Alaskan Way right-of-way, and the integration with Myrtle Edwards Park will lead the creation of 8.0 acres of new green space on Seattle's central waterfront.

 * The park will provide a unique venue for educational programs and special events. A wide range of art-related educational programs and public events will take place in the park year-round. The park's green landscape and a light-filled indoor pavilion, with their spectacular views, will provide stunning venues for public activities.

 * The park design will contribute to the recovery and conservation of the natural environment. The use of native plants and green building practices will be used in the restoration of this former industrial site. As future green space, it can provide an important backdrop for learning about and experiencing Puget Sound's unique physical environment.

 Artistic Program

 The Olympic Sculpture Park will build on the Puget Sound region's formidable and historic contribution to the development art sited outside a museum environment. The park will reflect this history and encourage new forms of artistic expression. The Olympic Sculpture Park will also take into account the changing function of public spaces within the urban context today. At a time when urban green spaces are becomingly increasingly rare, the Olympic Sculpture Park will, in addition to providing an enriching green space for the appreciation of art, offer the community and visitors to Seattle an environment in which to more fully appreciate the context of the city - its history, geography, ecology and cultural identity.

 A New Model

 Although many fine models for sculpture parks exist in the United States, Seattle's Olympic Sculpture Park can reflect and build upon these models to accommodate new ways that artists are working today and also new ways in which public space is being discussed and utilized.

 * Changing the Nature of Publicly-Sited Art

 Public-sited art has evolved significantly since the bronze man on horseback made his appearance in town squares. Today, artists are as likely to create an opportunity for dialogue in the name of public art as they are to place an object in an outdoor plaza. What does it mean, therefore, to create a sculpture park today? How can a public art space be made flexible enough to accommodate a range of artistic expression, as well as anticipate future directions that have yet to be imagined?

 * Changing the Nature of Public Space

 We live in a time when public space, particularly green space in urban centers, is decreasing. As real estate prices soar and populations swell, shared spaces that are not predominantly devoted to commerce are harder and harder to create and protect. How can an outdoor space that will primarily be devoted to experiencing the visual arts also incorporate the dynamism of contemporary urban life and the leisure activities that accompany it?

 * Changing Discourses about Publicly-Sited Art

 Seattle is a city with a long history of engagement with public art. Over the past fifty years, it commissioned historically important works by leading artists and galvanized a national dialogue through its innovative thinking. In addition to creating permanent works of sculpture, Seattle was among the first cities to commission community-based public works by artists, host provocative discussions about the social role of art and sponsor ephemeral projects created through artist residencies. How can the Olympic Sculpture Park continue Seattle's leadership in the field through an artistic program that presents and interprets public-sited visual art experiences and further catalyze a discussion of the context in which these experiences occur more broadly?

 Goals

 The artistic program of the Olympic Sculpture Park will embrace the site in its entirety, including: the waterfront and Puget Sound; its outdoor spaces; and the interior environments of the pavilion and parking garage. Four words encapsulate the guiding principles of the Olympic Sculpture Park: evolving, flexible, accessible and inclusive. In short, the Seattle Art Museum at the Olympic Sculpture Park will be a dynamic place where art happens.

 The artistic program will be international in focus and will present a broad range of art works - both historic and contemporary. However, all forms of public-sited art will be represented in the artistic program. The sculpture park can also function as a discussion space in which to explore public-sited art in the broader context of art history, as well as debates surrounding the changing nature of public space, architectural and landscape theory and environmental design. As a means of advocating and educating, the artistic program will also draw attention to the region's continuing contribution to the field of public-sited art by making visitors aware of other works of art in this and programs sponsored by colleague institutions.

 In addition to thinking of the Olympic Sculpture Park as an outdoor exhibition environment for art, the park will be conceived as a program of complementary components that are connected to the Seattle Art Museum as a whole. The sculpture park's artistic program will relate to the museum's sites in downtown and at Volunteer Park to encourage a coherent identity for the Seattle Art Museum. Tie-ins will be desirable whenever possible without being contrived. The park's artistic program will be part of a comprehensive and institutional strategic plan for the institution that integrates growth, strengthening and animating the permanent collection with inspired temporary exhibitions, artist projects and educational activities for both the specialist and the community- at-large.

 * Permanent Collection

 A thoughtful and broad-reaching acquisition program will enable SAM to collect extraordinary works of art for the enjoyment of all. Acquisitions will endeavor, whenever possible, to complement, deepen and expand the permanent collection of the Seattle Art Museum, the visible history of public art in Seattle, and works commissioned by the Seattle Arts Commission and other institutions.

 The design of the park will strive to be flexible to accommodate acquisitions over time. The site itself is of unusual beauty but is not infinitely expandable. Large-scale works of public art require considerable space to appear dynamic and to artfully animate the space around them. Therefore, the design will strive to be flexible to accommodate an evolving artistic program.

 The acquisition program will include elements of the park that are permanent and created by artists, such as bridges or walkways, handrails, seating, pavement and entrances. There provides an opportunity for artists to play an active role in collaborating on these and other design elements of the park.

 Having a permanent collection should not imply that works will be permanently on display. Instead, works will be circulated throughout the museum's spaces at the park, as well as at Volunteer Park and downtown. This will require provisions for storage, which may or may not be provided at the Olympic Sculpture Park.

 * Temporary Exhibitions

 Certain areas of the park will function as adaptable settings for a changing array of exhibition and activities. Temporary exhibitions will include objects and/or activities organized by artists, with a particular emphasis on works created specifically for setting of the Olympic Sculpture Park.

 In order to present the history of public-sited art as a continually evolving genre of artmaking, the Seattle Art Museum will also borrow objects from public and private collections for temporary exhibitions. Borrowing works of art will enable the museum to remain flexible and open to new ways of thinking about that history which would be less possible in a park that was devoted entirely to permanent works of art.

 * Commissions

 The Olympic Sculpture Park will commission works by living artists that may be temporary or permanent. As a key component of the realization of new works, artists will be invited to spend time in Seattle interacting with the community. Documentation of the commissioning process will enable Seattle Art Museum to share new work throughout the art field.

 * Young Audiences

 The Seattle Art Museum is committed to engaging audiences of all ages at the Olympic Sculpture Park. Interactive experiences for young people will be a prominent part of the park's artistic program. Children, young adults and families will perceive the sculpture park as a safe space offering playfulness, contemplation and education. Complementary to the park's design and artistic program, an interdisciplinary education program will include activities suitable for collaboration between educators in the arts and the humanities.

 * Live Art

 The Olympic Sculpture Park program can also provide an opportunity to present works of performance art. These could be commissioned works or re-creations of works conceived in an earlier time or for other venues.

 * Artist in Residency Program

 The park can also provide an opportunity for artists as well as scholars, critics and theorists to create, research and write as well as to share with the community new ways of thinking about for example, the changing nature of public spaces and the role of culture in the life of a city. The design of the park will consider accommodating a short-term workspace for visiting artists within the pavilion, or other suitable location.

 * Scholarship

 Symposia, lectures and other forms of public discussion on subjects germane to the park will be developed and the proceedings published in order to share the work to a broader audience. This type of scholarship could establish Seattle as an international leader in the field and identify the sculpture park as a laboratory and think-tank on the subject of culture and public space.

 * Education

 Educational activities will celebrate the sculpture park in all of its dimensions by creating greater awareness of the history, ecology and geology of the site as well as interpreting the works of art. The curatorial-education team will develop an interpretive program for the site that will include a flexible signage system, printed materials and talks by trained docents.

 Landscape Program

 The Olympic Sculpture Park will become an 8-acre green oasis in the heart of Seattle's north downtown neighborhood. A primary goal of the landscape program is to coordinate the development of the Olympic Sculpture Park with a redesign of the Alaskan Way right-of- way, integration with Myrtle Edwards Park and improved pedestrian connections to the waterfront.

 Trees and shrubs native to the Pacific Northwest will be the preferred plant material. The Olympic Sculpture Park will have strong connections to surrounding streets and will be easily accessible from adjacent neighborhoods and businesses. The majority of visitor parking will be provided in an underground parking garage. A comprehensive parking analysis will determine the optimum number of spaces for park visitors, including current and future users.

 Olympic Sculpture Park

 The following elements may be integrated into the park's design.

 * Experience Zones

 The landscape design will create various zones to provide park visitors with the opportunity to experience a range of uses and moods, from large, active spaces to more intimate, contemplative spaces. Some zones will be designed to encourage playfulness, while others will allow serenity and privacy.

 * Viewpoints

 The site's physical location and outlook over Puget Sound will be a major draw for visitors. The landscape design will provide features and areas for people to sit, relax and enjoy the view. Lines of sight into the park from adjacent streets and gathering places will also be considered. In an effort to enhance views, overhead electrical wires in the vicinity of the park will be buried.

 * Open Areas

 Open areas will provide flexible settings for exhibiting sculpture, whether single monumental works, grouping of sculptures or temporary installations. These open areas will also accommodate gatherings of larger groups for special events. Areas suitable for special events will be located adjacent to the visitor building veranda. (See "Veranda," page 15.)

 *

 Water Feature

 The site's greatest asset is its proximity to Elliott Bay. Recognizing the value of the park's relationship to the water, and the role that water plays in making open space a more pleasant environment, a pond or an interactive water feature could become a focal point of the park, as well as help mitigate street and railroad traffic noise.

 * Pathways and Access within the Park

 The park will provide a hierarchical system of paths, ranging from hard, wide paths that provide access for maintenance and art- moving, to narrow, soft paths that serve all areas of the park. Paths will connect to existing pedestrian and bicycle paths in Myrtle Edwards Park and planned trail improvements such as the Potlatch Trail.

 * Pedestrian Access to the Park

 The streets and railroad running through and around the site present one of the biggest challenges to creating a seamless waterfront park. The design will address these challenges via improved at-grade street crossings, bridges or underpasses to establish desired connections and provide separation from noise and safety hazards. The feasibility of final solutions will be subject to the constraints of a high water table, loose fill and underground utilities. These connections will accommodate disabled visitors.

 North Waterfront Access Project

 The design for safe pedestrian access to and from the park and the waterfront will be informed by the findings of the North Waterfront Access Project, currently being developed by SEATRAN (City of Seattle Transportation Department). This study will analyze current and future multi-modal traffic patterns and present alternative design solutions within the vicinity of the park.

 Elliott Avenue Crossing

 The crossing of Elliott Avenue can also respond to the site's grade change between the upper and lower yards. Design solutions will also be geared toward calming vehicular traffic.

 Railroad Crossing

 A pedestrian bridge will be needed to cross the railroad tracks. A crossing may be considered at Bay Street, which historically was an access point across the tracks from Belltown to Myrtle Edwards Park.

 * Streetscapes

 Streetscapes (public street right-of-ways) bordering the Olympic Sculpture Park site will be upgraded when the park is developed. Improvements to frontages on Western Avenue, Elliott Avenue and Broad Street will include new sidewalks, street trees and lighting. New streetscapes around the park may also incorporate a bike path that would link the Potlatch Trail - a proposed pedestrian and bicycle trail from South Lake Union to Seattle Center - to the waterfront.

 *

 Short-Term Parking and Visitor Drop-Off Areas

 Short-term surface parking may be provided, as indicated by the parking analysis. Drop-off zones for disabled visitors and for school and tour busses can be provided along adjacent streets.

 Alaskan Way Right-of-Way

 The portion of the Alaskan Way right-of-way that lies between Broad Street and the entrance to Myrtle Edwards Park will be a key transition between the Olympic Sculpture Park and Myrtle Edwards Park. A complete redesign of this Alaskan Way parcel in concert with the design of the Olympic Sculpture Park will improve the physical character of the waterfront, provide for pedestrian and bicycle trails that currently end at the entrance to Myrtle Edwards Park, and provide additional public art space. Some surface parking may be provided, as determined by the findings of the parking analysis.

 Waterfront Streetcar Maintenance Barn

 A proposed northern extension of the waterfront streetcar would increase use of the streetcar and improve access between downtown, the waterfront and the Magnolia and Queen Anne neighborhoods. Improvements to the existing streetcar line would make possible the relocation of the streetcar maintenance barn, which obstructs views and does not adequately serve the maintenance requirements of the streetcar operations in its current location. Relocating the maintenance barn from its current location is critical to transforming the Alaskan Way parcel into a pedestrian-accessible waterfront park space.

 Myrtle Edwards Park

 Future improvements to Myrtle Edwards Park will focus on integration with the Olympic Sculpture Park where it meets the Alaskan Way parcel. Suggested improvements include enhanced plantings and habitat improvements along the shoreline and throughout the park; expansion of the natural sandy beach area; and improvements to the pedestrian and bicycle paths.

 Building Program

 Park Pavilion

 A pavilion on the park's grounds will provide an indoor exhibition and event space and will also house visitor services - such as a cafe, information desk, store, restrooms and administration. An underground parking garage will provide parking for visitors. The estimated footprint of the pavilion is envisioned to be no more than 7,500 to 10,000 square feet (696.8 to 929 square meters). The building will be designed and situated so that it is easily accessible to visitors arriving to the park by car or foot and so that it preserves and enhances views of the Olympic Sculpture Park, Elliott Bay and the downtown skyline.

 The scale and style of the pavilion will be appropriate to the building's function as a support to the park, allowing the landscape to be the major emphasis of the design. The building's functions will not attempt to duplicate the downtown Seattle Art Museum's facilities. Rather, exhibitions and other programs in the park pavilion will relate directly to the sculpture park's artistic and educational program. The pavilion will relate to the landscape, providing a transition between interior and exterior areas of the park. Like the park's grounds, the building's interior and exterior spaces will be designed for maximum flexibility of use.

 * Multi-Purpose Space

 A flexible space with tall, column-free clear-spans and an open floor plan will be the central feature of the pavilion. The estimated floorplate of the multi-purpose space will be no more than 5,000 square feet (464.5 square meters); the ceiling height will be approximately 25 feet (7.6 meters). Large doors will accommodate special event requirements, and easy transport of art to and from the building. Given the multi-purpose space's size and informality, it will be able to serve a variety of functions - often simultaneously - such as those described below.

 Indoor Exhibitions

 The multi-purpose space will be designed so that it can accommodate installations of both large and small-scale works that do not require a climate-controlled environment.

 Cafe Dining

 Seating for casual dining will be provided in the multi-purpose space and on an outside attached terrace. The amount of seating will vary depending on need and season. (For comparison, the Seattle Art Museum Downtown cafe accommodates 48 people and the Benaroya Hall cafe seats about 100.) The cafe's outlook will provide a wonderful place from which to take in the expanse of the park and the scenic view beyond. Cafe seating will also provide a place where school groups can eat sack lunches. Dining furniture can be easily stored to accommodate special events.

 Special Events and Public Programs

 The multi-purpose space will be large enough to accommodate stand- up receptions for up to 500 people or seated banquet events for 350 people in one contiguous space. Revenue from special events will contribute to the park's operating funds. The space can also be used to convene for educational programs and group tours.

 Information Kiosk

 A staffed information desk or moveable kiosk displaying maps and brochures about the park and other city attractions will be located near the entry to the park pavilion. It will be similar to the information desk at the downtown museum.

 Retail Kiosks

 Retail sales are expected to be heaviest in the summer (serving tourists and cruise ship passengers) and on weekends. A system that allows for the expansion or removal of educational materials and exhibition-related items for sale will allow retail services to be provided on a flexible basis.

 * * Catering Kitchen

 A catering kitchen will provide facilities for reheating and serving cafe food (that has been prepared off-site) and for staging catered events. The kitchen size will be approximately 600 to 800 square feet (55.7 to 74.3 square meters).

 * Offices

 Offices for park administration, groundskeeping and security staff will be included within the building. A state-of-the-art central security system - including motion detectors, cameras and remote audio access - will monitor and protect both people and artwork in the park, building and parking garage.

 * Storage

 Ample storage will be provided to support uses in the building. A storage area accessible from outside the building will house maintenance equipment and site furnishings. Storage for large equipment and sculpture could be provided in the garage. (See "Parking Garage," page 11.)

 * Restrooms

 Restrooms will be provided in the park pavilion, and additional restroom facilities may also be provided in Alaskan Way.

 *

 Veranda

 A partially roofed outdoor terrace adjacent to the cafe area of the multi-purpose space will be used for outdoor cafe dining as well as for overflow space for special events. It will provide a scenic overlook to the park and the views beyond.

 * Parking Garage

 A below-grade parking garage will accommodate park visitors arriving by car. The garage can also serve valet parking during special events in the park or building. Space for art storage, deliveries, exhibitions and events will also be accommodated in the garage. The structure will need to be designed so that it can bear the weight of the landscape elements and any artwork sited above it. Structural requirements will also determine whether parking is developed on one level or multiple levels.

 Public Parking

 Approximately 80 to 100 paid parking stalls will be provided in the parking garage for public use. A preliminary analysis of the Seattle Land Use and Zoning Code guidelines calls for approximately 80 spaces, given the currently projected pavilion size and uses.

 Exhibitions and Events

 High ceilings, natural light clerestories and clear-spans will create a garage that can double as a unique exhibition or event space. The economic feasibility of creating such a multi-purpose garage will be explored.

 Loading and Delivery

 The parking garage or pavilion will incorporate loading docks and receiving areas for transporting sculpture, catering supplies and other needs. Areas for unpacking/packing and staging in- coming/out-going sculpture will also be provided.

 Sculpture and Grounds Maintenance Equipment Storage

 Secure areas for storing sculpture and maintenance equipment may be included in the underground garage.

 Restroom Building (in Alaskan Way)

 Currently, unsightly portable toilets are provided in the Alaskan Way area for public use. The objective is to provide an auxiliary building of approximately 1,000 square feet (93 square meters) containing restrooms as well as a small storage shed for grounds maintenance equipment.

 Addenda

 Technical Notes

 The notes below represent a record of ideas and issues that were identified in the process of developing this Program for the Olympic Sculpture Park. During the design process, the Park designers will add to this record and will continue to develop specific technical requirements associated with building and operating the Park.

 Irrigation

 Permanent irrigation should be provided to support lawns and plants that are not drought-tolerant. Temporary irrigation should be provided for 2-3 years while trees and plants become established.

 Geotechnical Requirements

 Permanent monumental sculptures will require subterranean footings that will need to be constructed simultaneously with the installation of the low-permeability cap. Certain areas of the site will be structurally designed to receive large sculptures that are loaned or acquired at a later date. The site and pathways will be developed to accommodate installation of artworks by truck and crane. Seismic anchors may be needed for large sculptures.

 Site Drainage

 The design of any water feature included in the Park will consider maintenance, water treatment and water circulation requirements as well as the need to discourage Canadian geese and to ensure public safety by providing shallow slopes.

 Native Plant Materials

 Because native plants are self-sustaining in Seattle's climate, they will thrive over time with low maintenance and irrigation requirements. Native evergreen conifers can be used architecturally to screen undesirable elements and to delineate spaces. Native groundcovers can provide an economical, low- maintenance alternative to lawns in some areas. Perennial wildflowers will enhance the quality of more intimate spaces. As it matures, the plants will become another feature of great interest to visitors.

 Site FF&E

 Site fixtures, finishes and furnishings (FF&E) will be identified during design development. Needs that have been identified to date include:

 * Fixed seating in some areas

 * Moveable seating in some areas, such as near the building

 * Seating located in such a way as to discourage bench camping

 * Some permanent, artist-designed seating

 * Garbage and recycling receptacles that are well-designed, and seagull and squirrel proof

 * Outdoor bicycle racks, especially at the building entrance

 * Light fixtures

 Building Design Considerations

 In light of the fact that the visitor building's roof will be visible from neighboring condominium and office buildings, the roof will be designed in an aesthetic manner that camouflages HVAC equipment and other unsightly features. In the building's multi- purpose space, concrete flooring that can be easily drilled into and patched will provide a flexible anchor system for changing sculpture exhibitions. A suspension system will also be needed. The climate-controlled gallery will include humidity-control air systems, duct liners and sealed doors that will insulate the gallery from other spaces within the building. The gallery will also have special exhibition lighting. The gallery will be able to be darkened for film or slide projection.

 Kitchen Requirements

 The kitchen will need to include large prep areas, plating and staging areas, beverage area, dishwashing sink and machine, utility sink, food and napery storage, china and glass storage, secure liquor storage, lockable walk-in coolers and dry storage rooms, cleaning supply closet with a mop sink. The cafe will provide a limited menu featuring specialty dishes, sandwiches, picnic fare, cookies and beverages (comparable to Benaroya Hall and Frye Art Museum's cafe menus). The project designers will interview caterers to determine the facilities that may be required for special events.

 Storage in the Building

 Adequate indoor storage space will be provided for:

 * Chairs and tables for the cafe and for events

 * Rolling retail kiosks and newspaper/magazine racks

 * Audio-visual equipment

 * Education and activity materials

 * Art installation tools and packing materials

 Building FF&E

 Fixtures, finishes and furnishings will be identified during design development. Needs that have been identified to date include:

 * Kitchen equipment

 * Cafe chairs and tables

 * Event chairs and tables

 * Casework for retail, cafe and information desk

 * Shades for windows and glass walls

 * Cash registers for retail

 * Light fixtures

 Safety and Security

 Safety and security systems should be provided to protect people as well as artwork, both on the site and in the building. Security systems should be non-intrusive yet effective. Site amenities and design elements that will enhance safety should be provided, including:

 * First Aid Station or emergency call boxes for medical access

 * Adequate site lighting and pathway lighting

 * Camouflaged security cameras and speakers

 Electrical and Communications Needs

 Electrical and communications needs will be evaluated more specifically during design development. Electrical wires on the perimeter of the site will need to be buried at the time of the Park's development. This effort should be coordinated with Seattle City Light. A minimum of four telephone lines and internet/computer access will be needed. It will be desirable to have computers (with back-up power) linked to Seattle Art Museum Downtown and the Seattle Asian Art Museum. Ample wiring, cables power and "eye hooks" will be needed for flexible lighting, computer, audio-visual and exhibition needs. Power, communications and low voltage requirements that have been identified to date include:

 * Site lighting and special events lighting

 * Special events speaker/sound system

 * Multi-purpose cable uses

 * Electronic admissions monitoring at entrances

 * Some points of fiber-optic and power access placed within the Park

 * Power for lights, heat and AV for veranda and lawn area for tented events

 * Recharging for electric forklifts and park maintenance vehicles

 Sculpture Exhibition Lighting

 Lighting for sculpture will be needed indoors and outdoors. Lighting equipment for the illumination of sculpture will need to be very flexible. Lighting will be provided by a track system.

 Audio-Visual Equipment

 * Data projector.

 * Slide projector and projection screen.

 * Audio system with built-in speakers.

 * Event communications/display station.

 Signage

 Inviting, visible signs should welcome visitors at all park entries. Signs should be designed to simply and clearly display park information, exhibition labels and provide interpretive information. Signs or reader boards describing the area's cultural and natural history should be incorporated into the park.

 HVAC

 The HVAC (Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning) system will be designed to serve interior spaces and their uses.

 Parking Code Analysis

 This preliminary parking analysis is based on Seattle Land Use and Zoning Code guidelines. During the design process for the Olympic Sculpture Park, a more complete parking analysis will be undertaken to assess how much parking will need to be provided on the site. Final parking requirements are subject to interpretation and review by the City Department of Design, Land Use and Construction (DCLU).

 The analysis below does not include potential partnerships with area businesses to build additional parking. Nor does it include exhibition space, storage or delivery areas that may be included in the parking garage.

 USE/ OSP PROGRAM REQUIRED PARKING STANDARD ELEMENT/ SPACES PROGRAMMED AREA Park/playgrounds No parking is Landscape Program (all) 0 required.

 Museum: auditoria Multi-Purpose Space 63 and public assembly 5,000 SF space not containing fixed seats 1 parking space per 80 SF

 Museum: auditoria and None. Fixed seats would 0 public assembly space trigger this parking containing fixed requirement. seats. 1 parking space per 10 SF

 Retail None. Dedicated retail 0 1 parking space per 350 space (as opposed to SF portable retail carts) would trigger this parking requirement.

 Office 1 parking space per 1000 Administration, 2 SF groundskeeping and security offices. 1,500 SF

 Restaurant None. Dedicated cafe 0 1 parking space per 200 space would trigger this SF parking requirement

 SUBTOTAL required parking spaces 65 1 parking space per 330 GSF

 TOTAL parking spaces 70 Includes 5 spaces for contingency

 11/21/2001 Exhibit C Legal Description of Parcels A, B and C

 Parcel A:

 That portion of the Northeast quarter of Section 36, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, Willamette Meridian, in King County, Washington; of Section 31, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, Willamette Meridian, in King County, Washington; of William N. Bell's Seventh Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, Page 82, in King County, Washington; and of the vacated alley therein, described as follows:

 BEGINNING at the most Easterly corner of Block 4 in said Addition; thence North 48 degrees 54'05" West along the Southwest margin of Western Avenue 720.68 feet to the Northwest line of that parcel conveyed to Union Oil by deed from Ignatz Steinhart, dated December 4, 1909; thence South 41 degrees 05'55" West along said Northwest line 193.88 feet to the Northeast margin of Elliott Avenue, as established by the City of Seattle Ordinance Number 12502; thence South 42 degrees 59'09" East along said Northeast margin 603.76 feet to the most Westerly corner of said Block 4; thence South 48 degrees 54'59" East along the Southwest line thereof 120 feet to the most Southerly corner of said Block 4; thence North 41 degrees 07'49" East along the Southeast line thereof 256.08 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Parcel B:

 THAT PORTION OF the Northeast quarter of Section 36, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, Willamette Meridian, in King County, Washington; of Section 31, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, Willamette Meridian, in King County, Washington; of Blocks 168A and 168B, Supplemental Plat of Seattle Tidelands and of vacated Eagle Street, described as follows:

 BEGINNING at the most Northerly corner of Block 5, William N. Bell's Seventh Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, Page 82, in King County, Washington; thence South 41 degrees 07'49" West along the Northwest line thereof, 27.58 feet to the most Easterly corner of Lot 4 in said Block 168B, Seattle Tidelands; thence South 41 degrees 10'09" West along the Southeast line of said Lot 4, a distance of 91.78 feet to the Southwest line of said Block 168B; thence North 48 degrees 49'51" West along said Southwest line and its extension 280.55 feet to its intersection with the Southeasterly extension of the Southwest line of said Block 168A, Seattle Tidelands; thence North 41 degrees 10'23" West along said extension and Southwest line 389.58 feet to the Southeast margin of Bay Street; thence North 41 degrees 10'09" East along said Southeast margin 135.36 feet to the Southwest margin of Elliott Avenue as established by City of Seattle Ordinance Number 12502; thence South 43 degrees 00'51" East along said Southwest margin 670.08 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Parcel C:

 Lots 1 through 10, Block 168, Supplemental Plat of Seattle Tidelands, in King County, Washington, as shown on the official maps on file in the Office of the Commissioner of Public Lands at Olympia, Washington.

 Exhibit D Form of Deed

 WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

 Name: ________________________________ Address: ______________________________ City, State, Zip __________________________

 BARGAIN AND SALE DEED WITH POWER OF TERMINATION

 THE GRANTOR, The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation (the "City"), bargains, sells and conveys to the Museum Development Authority, a public corporation chartered by The City of Seattle ("MDA"), the following described real property ("Property"), situated in the County of King, State of Washington:

 Parcel No. 1: Lots 3 and 4, Block 5, William N. Bell's Seventh Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the Plat thereof recorded in volume 2 of Plats, page 82, records of King County Washington; Excepting therefrom that portion platted as Seattle Tidelands; Also Excepting therefrom, that portion described as follows: Beginning at a point on the Southeasterly line of said Lot 3, distant 14.408 Southwesterly of the most Easterly corner of said Lot; Thence Northerly and Westerly along the arc of a curve to the left having a radius of 24 feet, an arc distance of 27.83 feet to a point on the Northeasterly line of said Lot 3, distant 22 feet Northwesterly of said most Easterly corner; Thence Southeasterly along said Northeasterly line to said most Easterly corner; Thence southwesterly along the Southeasterly line of said Lot to the point of Beginning.

 Parcel No. 2: Lots 5 and 6, Block 168-B, Supplemental Plat of Seattle Tidelands, as shown on the Official Maps of Seattle Tidelands on file in the office of the Commissioner of Public lands at Olympia, Washington.

 subject to the reservation set forth on Attachment 1, attached hereto

 SUBJECT TO THE FOLLOWING EXPRESS CONDITION: (1) that the Property is used and developed only as a sculpture garden, park or other open space as part of the Seattle Art Museum Olympic Sculpture Park, in compliance with the use and development restrictions provided in the Amendment to the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between King County and the City governing allocation and use of conservation futures levy proceeds for the Property, with public access free of charge in perpetuity (subject to the Seattle Art Museum's right to close the Property to the general public for Olympic Sculpture Park special events and to perform Olympic Sculpture Park property management responsibilities).

 BUT IF MDA does not perform the remedial action outlined in the Prospective Purchaser Consent Decree Re: 10 Broad Street, Seattle, Washington, entered on May 17, 2001 under King County Superior Court Cause Number 01-2-13878 2SEA; or if the Seattle Art Museum Olympic Sculpture Park is not completed and open to the public by fifteen (15) years from the date of this deed; or if public access to the Property is restricted or prohibited other than for the limited purposes set forth above; or if the Property is ever used for any purpose except as provided in item 1 above, then the City shall have the right to enter and retake its former estate in fee simple. Furthermore, if MDA terminates the Ground Lease of the Property dated ______________, 2001 between MDA and the Seattle Art Museum in accordance with the terms thereof, then MDA may at its option transfer fee title to the Property to the City by a bargain and sale deed subject only to such non-financial encumbrances as are consistent with the condition set forth in item (1) above.

 CITY: CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation Date: _______________ By: ________________________________ Name: ______________________________ Title: _______________________________

 STATE OF _____________ ) )ss. COUNTY OF ___________ )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _______________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that s/he signed this instrument, on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the ____________________[officer] of ________________________, a _______________, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: __________________

 (Seal or stamp) ____________________________________ (Signature) ____________________________________ (Printed Name) Notary Public My appointment expires ________________

 ATTACHMENT 1

 The following is reserved

 Right of the City of Seattle to damage said premises by changing and establishing street grades, under judgment on verdicts entered June 26, 1912, in King County Superior Court, Cause No. 88469, as provided for in Ordinance 2800. 12/03/2001 t

```
