

********

**Council Bill Number: 113987**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120696**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation and to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the acquisition of real property located at 11715 36th Avenue Northeast in the Lake City neighborhood for open space, park, and recreation purposes; authorizing acceptance of the deed; assigning shared jurisdiction over a portion of said property to Seattle Public Utilities for floodplain/habitat enhancement purposes; and making an appropriation from the 2000 Parks Levy Fund for acquisition and related costs; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 17, 2001
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Nicastro)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 21, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 20, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 3, 2001
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts and Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, LAKE-CITY, PARKS, OPEN-SPACE-LAND, FLOOD-CONTROL, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, THORNTON-CREEK, THREATENED-AND-ENDANGERED-SPECIES

**References/Related Documents:** Related: 120024

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 120696](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_120696.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation and to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the acquisition of real property located at 11715 36th Avenue Northeast in the Lake City neighborhood for open space, park, and recreation purposes; authorizing acceptance of the deed; assigning shared jurisdiction over a portion of said property to Seattle Public Utilities for floodplain/habitat enhancement purposes; and making an appropriation from the 2000 Parks Levy Fund for acquisition and related costs; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, the North District (Lake City Way) Neighborhood Plan recommends acquisition of property in the vicinity of Little Brook in the Thornton Creek watershed, including the property located at 11715 36th Avenue Northeast; and

 WHEREAS, the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails and Zoo Levy, as proposed by Ordinance 120024 and approved by Seattle voters in the November 7, 2000, provides funds for acquisition of new neighborhood parks and green spaces; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120024 identified North Open Space Acquisitions (including parcels identified through the 1989 Seattle Open Space and Trails Program within the Thornton Creek Watershed) as one of the projects in the Neighborhood Parks Acquisition subcategory for accomplishment with 2000 Parks Levy funding; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities has as a part of its mission the purchase of real property for utility needs, including management of creek corridors, habitat restoration and enhancement, and flood control; and

 WHEREAS, in December 1999 the Department of Parks and Recreation and Seattle Public Utilities entered into a Memorandum of Agreement that defines roles, responsibilities, and processes for specified activities including urban creek restoration projects such as that anticipated on a portion of the real property described in Section 1 below; Now Therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or his designee is authorized, on behalf of The City of Seattle, to acquire the following described real property ("Property") for open space, park and recreation purposes in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by this reference:

 Lots 11,12, 13, and 14, Block 25, University Lake Shore Addition Divisions 1, 2, and 3,

 according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 18 of Plats, page 81, in King County,

 Washington; and

 Lots 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14, Block 26 University Lake Shore Addition Division 4,

 according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 18 of Plats, page 82, in King County,

 Washington.

 Section 2. Upon delivery of the statutory warranty deed for the Property, the Superintendent is authorized to accept the deed on behalf of The City of Seattle for open space, park and recreation purposes, and the Property shall be under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation.

 Section 3. Shared jurisdiction of the following portion of the Property shall be assigned to Seattle Public Utilities for the purposes of flood control and habitat restoration and enhancement:

 Lots 11, 12, 13, and 14, except the eastern 250 feet thereof; Block 25, University Lake

 Shore Addition Divisions 1, 2, and 3, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume

 18 of Plats, page 81, in King County, Washington; and

 Lots 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14, Block 26 University Lake Shore Addition Division 4,

 according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 18 of Plats, page 82, in King County,

 Washington.

 Section 4. To pay for the acquisition authorized in Section 1 above and for related acquisition costs, the sum of One Million Three Hundred Forty Thousand Dollars ($1,340,000), or so much thereof as is necessary, is hereby appropriated from the 2000 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33850) as part of Capital Improvement Program K723001 - Neighborhood Park Acquisitions, Project Number K733042-02 - North Open Space Acquisitions. The 2001 Adopted Budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation is hereby increased accordingly.

 Section 5. The amount appropriated in Section 4 shall be partially reimbursed by an interdepartmental transfer of Five Hundred Forty Thousand Dollars ($540,000) from the Drainage and Wastewater Fund (Fund 44010), Project C3AA302 to the 2000 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33850).

 Section 6. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 7. The foregoing appropriations are made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the City for which insufficient appropriation has been made due to causes that could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of making the 2001 Adopted Budget. Now, Therefore, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reason of the facts above stated, this ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the members of the City Council the _____ day of __________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2001.

 ______________________________________

 President ____________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _______ day of __________, 2001

 ______________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________, 2001

 _____________________________________

 (SEAL) City Clerk

 WardL

 ltbrkord.doc

 November 26, 2001

 V #1 EXHIBIT A

 REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 THIS REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made as of the _____ day of _______________, 2001 by and between RUDOLPH A. KARTESS, a widowed man ("Seller"), and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("Buyer"). The real property that is the subject of this Agreement is situated in King County, Washington, and legally described in Exhibit A attached hereto ("Land"). The Land together with all permanent improvements thereon and all rights, privileges, easements and other appurtenances thereto are hereafter referred to as the "Property".

 1. Purchase Price; Payment. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement Seller shall sell and Buyer shall purchase the Property for a price of One Million Two Hundred Fifty Thousand and NO/100 Dollars (U.S. $1,250,000.00) ("Purchase Price"). The Purchase Price is payable as follows:

 1.1 Deposit. Within five (5) days of the execution of this Agreement by Buyer and Seller, Buyer will open an escrow account with Pacific Northwest Title Insurance Company, 215 Columbia Street, Seattle, Washington 98104 (referred to hereafter as "Escrow Agent" or "Title Company") and shall deliver to Escrow Agent a deposit of Five Thousand and NO/100 Dollars ($5,000.00) (the "Deposit") together with a copy of the fully executed Agreement. Escrow Agent shall place the Deposit in an interest-bearing account for the benefit of the Buyer. Escrow Agent shall apply or disburse the Deposit as provided in this agreement. At closing, Escrow Agent shall apply the Deposit together with interest, if any, to the Purchase Price

 1.2 Payment of Remainder of Purchase Price. The balance of the Purchase Price shall be payable in cash, certified funds or wire transfer at closing.

 2. Conveyance; Title Insurance.

 2.1 Conveyance. Seller shall convey good, marketable and insurable title to the Property to Buyer by statutory warranty deed subject only to the exceptions, if any, listed in Exhibit A ("Permitted Exceptions").

 2.2 Title Insurance. Title to the Property shall be insured under an ALTA extended coverage owner's policy of title insurance issued pursuant to the preliminary commitment for title insurance from the Title Company, No. 433142, dated April 26, 2001 ("Title Report"), subject only to the Permitted Exceptions. If required by the Title Company to issue an extended coverage owner's ALTA title insurance policy; Buyer shall obtain a survey and title updates for an extended policy at its own cost and expense.

 3. Conditions Precedent; Feasibility Period.

 3.1. Buyer Conditions. The obligations of Buyer under this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions, which are for the benefit of Buyer and may be waived only in writing by Buyer. If any condition is not satisfied or waived prior to closing (or such earlier date as provided in the subsections below), then this Agreement shall terminate, and the parties shall have no further obligations under this Agreement, except that Buyer shall be entitled to return of the Deposit together with interest, if any.

 3.1.1 Feasibility; Condition of Property. Buyer shall have ninety (90) days from the date this Agreement is executed by both parties ("Feasibility Period") to perform, or have performed by consultants acceptable to Buyer, such investigations of the Property as Buyer deems necessary or reasonable and to determine whether the results of the investigations are acceptable to Buyer. During the Feasibility Period, Buyer and its agents shall have the right to enter the Property at reasonable times to conduct such surveys, investigations and studies as Buyer deems necessary or desirable, subject to the following: (a) Buyer shall not allow (and shall immediately remove) any liens on the Property as a result of the investigations and shall repair or restore the Property to its original condition after completion of its investigations; (b) Buyer shall fully indemnify and hold Seller harmless from any claim, liability, loss or expense asserted against Seller or the Property arising out of Buyer's or its agent's, employee's or designee's entry onto the Property. All costs of such surveys, investigations and studies shall be paid for by Buyer.

 3.1.2 Council Approval of Transaction. On or before ninety (90) days after both Buyer and Seller have executed this Agreement, an ordinance shall have been passed by the Seattle City Council and signed by the Mayor authorizing the transaction contemplated by this Agreement and appropriating funds to complete this transaction.

 3.1.3 Debris and Personal Property. Not later than fifteen (15) days before closing, Buyer shall notify Seller of the nature and location of any garbage, waste or debris on the Property that Buyer desires Seller to remove before closing. Within five (5) days of closing, Seller shall, at Seller's cost and expense, perform a one-time, reasonable cleanup to remove garbage, waste and debris from the Property, which shall be subject to Buyer's inspection and reasonable approval. Seller will hold Buyer harmless from all claims and expenses arising from such removal.

 3.1.4 Title Insurance. On the date of closing, Title Company shall be irrevocably committed to issuing to Buyer an owner's ALTA Extended coverage policy of title insurance, dated as of the date of closing and insuring Buyer in the amount of the Purchase Price against loss or damage by reason of defect in Buyer's title to the Property subject only to the printed exclusions and general exceptions appearing in the policy form and any Permitted Exceptions.

 3.1.5 Compliance With Obligations. Seller shall have performed and complied in all material aspects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Seller.

 3.1.6 Representations and Warranties. The representations and warranties of Seller in this Agreement shall be true and correct in all respects as of the closing date.

 3.1.7 No Adverse Changes. As of closing, there shall have been no adverse change in the physical condition of the Property from the date of this Agreement.

 3.2. Seller Conditions. The obligation of Seller to convey the Property to Buyer hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions within the time periods specified below, which conditions are for the benefit of Seller and may be waived only in writing by Seller, as follows:

 3.2.1 Compliance With Obligations. Buyer shall have performed and complied in all material aspects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants, conditions and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Buyer.

 4. Representations and Warranties. Effective as of the date of this Agreement and the date of closing, Seller represents, warrants, and covenants as follows, which representations, warranties, and covenants shall survive closing and shall not be merged in any deed delivered by Seller to Buyer at closing.

 4.1 Authority of Seller. Seller, and the person signing on behalf of Seller, has full power and authority to execute this Agreement and perform Seller's obligations hereunder. When executed and delivered by Seller, this Agreement shall constitute a legal, valid, and binding obligation of Seller.

 4.2 Ownership. Seller is the sole owner of the Property.

 4.3 Hazardous Substances. Seller has not received notification from any agency suggesting that the Property is currently in violation of any environmental law or regulation or is or may be targeted for a Superfund cleanup. To the best of Seller's knowledge, the Property has not been used as a landfill, waste storage or disposal site or for the production, storage, deposit or disposal of any chemicals, petroleum products, or hazardous or dangerous wastes or substances that would subject the owner of the Property to any damage, penalty, or liability under any applicable local, state, or federal law or regulation.

 4.4 The Property. To the best of Seller's knowledge, the Property is free of any material defects, latent or patent, and there are no prescriptive or adverse interests with respect to the Property. To the best of Seller's knowledge, there are no boundary problems or encroachments on or from the Property.

 4.5 Litigation. To the best of Seller's knowledge, there is not pending or threatened any litigation or proceeding affecting the Property or any portion thereof which might materially impair the value or usefulness of the Property or any portion thereof to Buyer or would prevent Buyer from acquiring the Property in accordance with this Agreement. Seller has received no written notice of any judgments, orders, or decrees pending or outstanding against the Property or against Seller that would affect Seller's ability to perform his obligations under this Agreement or the use and occupancy of the Property for Buyer's purposes.

 4.6 Documents. To the best of Seller's knowledge, Seller has no documents, including, without limitation, reports, studies and surveys, pertaining to the Property.

 4.7 Outstanding Contracts. To the best of Seller's knowledge, all persons and corporations supplying labor, materials or equipment to the Property have been paid and there are no claims of liens. Seller shall indemnify and hold harmless Buyer from and against any and all obligations, costs, and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) for any contract for improvements to or otherwise affecting or relating to the Property that has not been fully paid and Seller shall discharge all mechanics' and materialmens' liens arising from any labor or material furnished prior to the closing date.

 4.8 Agreements with Governmental Authorities. Seller has no knowledge of any agreements with governmental authorities, agencies, utilities, or quasi-governmental entities that affect the Property except provision of utilities to the house located at 11715 - 36th Avenue NE. No consent or approval of any federal, state, or local court or federal, state or local government, bureau, department, commission, or agency is required to permit Seller to execute, deliver, or perform the transactions contemplated in the Agreement.

 4.9 Persons in Possession. As of the closing date the Property will not be subject to any leases, tenancies or rights of persons in possession and the house located at 11715 - 36th Avenue NE on Lot 11, Block 25, University Lake Shore Division #1-2-3 will be unoccupied and empty. Seller will hold Buyer harmless from any and all claims and expenses arising from previous leases, tenancies or rights of persons in possession.

 5. Closing.

 5.1 Closing Date. Closing shall occur in the office of Escrow Agent on a date mutually agreeable to Buyer and Seller within twenty-one (21) days after Buyer's conditions precedent have been satisfied or waived, but in any event no later than February 28, 2002, unless further extended by written agreement. As used in this Agreement, "closing," "closing date" or "date of closing" means the date on which all appropriate documents are recorded and proceeds of sale are available for disbursement to Seller in accordance with this Agreement. Funds held in reserve accounts pursuant to escrow instructions shall be deemed, for purposes of the definition of "closing," "closing date" and "date of closing," as available for disbursement to Seller.

 5.2 Prorations; Closing Costs. Surface water management fees and other fees (if any) payable to governmental entities shall be prorated as of the date of closing. Seller shall provide evidence satisfactory to Buyer that utility services to the Property, including but not limited to electicity, heating oil, telephone, cable television, have been terminated and that all services have been paid for in full. Water and sewer service charges shall be prorated as of the date of closing and the accounts transferred to Seller at closing. Seller shall pay real estate excise taxes (if any are due) and real property taxes prorated through the date of closing. If Seller is entitled to a reimbursement for overpayment of real property taxes, it shall be Seller's responsibility to seek such reimbursement from the appropriate taxing authority outside of closing. Seller's monetary liens on the Property shall, if not previously discharged, be discharged in full out of the Purchase Price at closing. Buyer will pay the premium for its owners title insurance policy, the escrow agent's fees and the cost of recording the statutory warranty deed from the Seller.

 5.3 Documents. Buyer and Seller shall deposit in escrow with Escrow Agent all instruments, documents and monies necessary to complete the sale in accordance with this Agreement. At closing, Seller shall execute and deliver to Buyer in escrow the following documents, each of which shall be in form and substance satisfactory to Buyer: a statutory warranty deed as described in Subsection 2.1 above, a real estate excise tax affidavit, and an affidavit evidencing that Seller is exempt from the withholding requirements of Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code.

 5.4 Possession. Buyer shall be entitled to possession of the Property upon closing.

 6. "As-Is" Sale. Subject to the express warranties, representations and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the warranties in Seller's deed at closing, the Property is sold "as- is" and Seller shall have no responsibility for demolition or removal of the house located at 11715 - 36th Avenue NE.

 7. Risk of Loss. Seller will bear the risk of loss of or damage to the Property until the date of closing. In the event of material loss of or damage to the Property prior to closing, Buyer may terminate this Agreement by giving notice of termination to Seller. If Buyer elects to terminate this Agreement, the Deposit together with interest, if any, shall be refunded to Buyer, and the parties shall have no further rights or obligations under this Agreement.

 8. Remedies on Default. If Buyer has performed its obligations under this Agreement, and Seller defaults under the terms and conditions of this Agreement, then Buyer shall be entitled to specific enforcement, or to damages for breach and to terminate this Agreement without further obligation to Seller and to receive return of the Deposit plus interest, if any. If Seller has performed its obligations under this Agreement, and Buyer defaults under the terms and conditions of this Agreement, then the Deposit shall be forfeited to Seller as liquidated damages as Seller's sole and exclusive remedy.

 9. Broker Representation. Seller represents and warrants to Buyer that Seller has incurred finder's, broker's, or other commissions or fees in connection with the sale of the Property and Seller is responsible for the payment of such fees. Seller shall indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees incurred by Seller. Buyer represents and warrants to Seller that Buyer has incurred no finder's, broker's, or other commissions or fees payable to any person in connection with the sale of the Property. Buyer shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees incurred by Buyer.

 10. General Provisions.

 10.1 Notices. All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or delivered via facsimile transmittal, and shall be deemed received on the sooner of actual or facsimile receipt or three (3) days after deposit in the mail, postage prepaid, addressed to Seller or Buyer, as the case may be, at the address/facsimile number set forth below and with copies as specified:

 Seller: Sandra Fetzer

 997 Road 8

 Powell, Wyoming 82435

 Telephone: (307) 754-4711

 Seller's Agent: Jason Wall/Lake & Associates

 7801 Green Lake Drive North

 Seattle, WA 98103

 Facsimile: (206) 527-8837 Telephone: (206) 527-1777

 Buyer: Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation

 800 Maynard Avenue South, 3rd Flr.

 Seattle, WA 98134

 Facsimile: (206) 233-7038 Telephone: (206) 733-9106

 Attn: Lise Ward

 Notice of a change of address or facsimile number shall be given by written notice in the manner specified above.

 10.2 Costs. Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, neither party shall be responsible for paying any costs incurred by the other party in connection with this Agreement or otherwise. All obligations, if any, for reimbursement or cost- sharing shall survive closing or the earlier termination of this Agreement for any reason whatsoever.

 10.3 Memorandum of Agreement. This Agreement shall not be recorded, but a mutually approved Memorandum stating the legal description and closing schedule may be prepared, signed, acknowledged and recorded at the request of either party.

 10.4 Amendment. This Agreement may be amended only by written instrument signed by Seller and Buyer acting through duly authorized representatives.

 10.5 Entire Understanding. This Agreement, and the documents incorporated herein, embody the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the transaction contemplated hereby, superseding all prior expressions by the parties. The terms of this Agreement cannot be waived except by the written agreement of the party against whom a waiver shall be asserted.

 10.6 Time of Essence. Time is of the essence of this Agreement and each term and condition hereof.

 10.7 Governing Law. This Agreement shall in all respects be interpreted, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws and judicial decisions of the State of Washington.

 10.8 Severability. If any portion of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, the same shall not affect in any respect whatsoever the validity of the remainder of this Agreement, which shall be enforced in accordance with its terms.

 10.9 Holidays and Weekends. In the event that the date for any notice, performance, term, or period specified or contemplated hereunder shall fall on a holiday or a weekend, the date and any associated performance or action shall automatically be extended to the next succeeding business day.

 10.10 Captions. Section titles or other headings set forth in this Agreement are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not be a part of this Agreement, nor shall they be considered in its interpretation, construction, or enforcement.

 10.11 Exhibits Incorporated. All exhibits attached hereto, as listed below, are expressly incorporated into and form a part of this Agreement.

 Exhibit A. Legal Description of Property and Permitted Exceptions.

 11. Expiration Date. This offer shall terminate if not accepted by Seller by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, October 19, 2001.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed this Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement as of the date first stated above.

 BUYER:

 The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation

 By: ___________________________________

 Kenneth R. Bounds, Superintendent of Parks

 and Recreation

 SELLER:

 Rudolph A. Kartess, aka Rudy Kartess

 By: ____________________________________

 Sandra Fetzer, his attorney-in-fact

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________________, ____, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ____________________________, to me known to be the ______________Superintendent of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written.

 ________________________________________

 ________________________________________

 (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at _____________.

 My Commission expires on ____________.

 STATE OF WYOMING )

 )ss

 COUNTY OF _______ )

 On this ____ day of __________________, ______, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Sandra Fetzer, known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person who executed this instrument as Attorney-in-fact for Rudolph A. Kartess and acknowledged it to be her free and voluntary act and deed as Attorney-in-fact for said principal for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument, and on oath stated that the Power of Attorney authorizing the execution of this instrument has not been revoked and that said principal is now living.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written.

 ________________________________________

 ________________________________________

 (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State

 of Wyoming, residing at______________.

 My Commission expires on _____________

 EXHIBIT A

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION AND PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS

 Lots 11, 12, 13, and 14, Block 25, University Lake Shore Addition Divisions 1, 2, and 3, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 18 of Plats, page 81, in King County, Washington;

 and

 Lots 10, 11, 12,13, and 14, Block 26, University Lake Shore Addition Division 4, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 18 of Plats, page 82, in King County, Washington

 Subject to:

 1. Easement to City of Seattle for slopes for cuts and fills, recorded December 31, 1969 under King County Recording Number 6604140.

 (continued)

 WardL

 ltbrkexa.doc

 11/16/01

 V#1

 A-1

```
