

********

**Council Bill Number: 113958**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120628**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department, authorizing the execution of a 20 year ground lease for a portion of the City Light Department's transmission line right-of-way in the southwest quarter of Section 17, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington to West Best Building Company.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 19, 2001
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 26, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 26, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 13, 2001
   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy
   
**Sponsor:** WILLS
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, CITY-LIGHT, INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICT

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department, authorizing the execution of a 20 year ground lease for a portion of the City Light Department's transmission line right-of-way in the southwest quarter of Section 17, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington to West Best Building Company.

 (P.M.#240417-3-404)

 WHEREAS, West Best Building Company has rented the property since December 1, 1977 for parking and access to its property; and

 WHEREAS, West Best Building Company has requested and the Superintendent of City Light has agreed to a 20 year lease of said property for the continued parking and access;

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. That the Superintendent of City Light is authorized to execute for and on

 behalf of the City of Seattle a 20 year ground lease substantially in the form attached hereto and identified as Exhibit "A", providing for the lease of a portion of the City Light Department's property in the southwest quarter of Section 17, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington which is more particularly described as follows:

 That portion of Lot 12, Block 270, Seattle Tidelands and the portion of vacated Dakota Street lying east of the east margin of 4th Avenue South and southwesterly of the southwesterly margin of the City's 200 foot transmission line right of way.

 for parking and access at a rental of Seven Hundred Seventy-Seven and no/100 Dollars ($777.00) per month to be reviewed, appraised and adjusted every sixty months.

 Section 2. That all rental payments shall be credited to the City Light Fund.

 Section 3. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 PASSED by the City Council the ______ day of ______________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2001.

 ___________________________________

 Margaret Pageler, President of the

 Seattle City Council

 Approved by me this ______ day of _________________, 2001.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this __________ day of _________________, 2001.

 __________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit "A" GROUND LEASE

 P.M.#240417-3-404

 THIS GROUND LEASE (the "Lease") is by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation, referred to in this Lease as the "Lessor," and WEST BEST BUIILDING COMPANY, L.L.P., a Washington Limited Liability Partnership, referred to in this Lease as the "Lessee." (Lessor and Lessee shall hereinafter collectively be referred to as the "Parties.")

 WITNESSETH:

 1. Premises. Lessor hereby leases to the Lessee, and the Lessee hereby leases from the Lessor, the real property situated in King County, State of Washington, (the "Leased Land") described as follows:

 That portion of Lot 12, Block 270, Seattle Tidelands and the portion of vacated Dakota Street lying east of the east margin of 4th Avenue South and southwesterly of the southwesterly margin of the City's 200 foot transmission line right of way.

 2. Lessee's Use of the Leased Land. Lessee's use of the Leased Land shall be only for parking for and access to Lessee's adjacent property.

 3. Term. The term of this Lease shall be for 20 years, commencing on ___________ and ending _______________, unless cancelled earlier under conditions set forth in this Lease.

 3.1 Effective Date. ______________ shall constitute and be referred hereafter as the "Effective Date" of this Lease.

 3.2 Possession. Lessor shall retain full possession of the Leased Land on the Effective Date, except to the extent otherwise provided by law or this Lease.

 4. Rent.

 4.1 Rent

 A. As consideration for the rights and privileges of this Lease, Lessee shall pay Lessor as rent Seven Hundred Seventy-Seven and 00/100 U.S. Dollars ($777.00) per month, which amount will be reviewed and possibly revised based on the current market value of the Leased Land as stipulated in paragraph 4.1C below, effective _______________________ and the first day of __(Month)______________ of each year during the term of this Lease. The above monthly rent is calculated according to the following formula: current market value of the Leased Land at $16.00 per square foot times 6475 square feet times nine percent divided by twelve months.

 B. All of the annual rent shall be paid in lawful money of the United States of America before the first day of each and every month of the Lease term.

 C. Every sixty months during the lease term, the monthly rent shall be adjusted by the Lessor based on an appraisal of the then current market value of the Leased Land (determined on a dollars per square foot basis) by a member of the Washington State American Institute of Appraisers. The current market value of the Leased Land will then be inserted into the formula in 4.1A above to determine the new monthly rent (the "Adjusted Monthly Rent").. Lessor shall provide Lessee with notice of the Adjusted Monthly Rent at least sixty (60 ) days prior to the date on which the rent will be adjusted. If the Lessee believes the Adjusted Monthly Rent does not adequately reflect the current market value of the Leased Land, Lessee may object to the proposed Adjusted Monthly Rent and propose an alternative adjusted monthly rent for the Lessor's approval. Lessee may also retain a member of the Washington State American Institute of Appraisers to present an independent appraisal of the then current market value of the Leased Land. Any objections to the Adjusted Monthly Rent, together with any independent appraisal must be provided to the Lessor within thirty (30) days of the Lessee's receipt of its notice of the Adjusted Monthly Rent. The Lessor shall have the right and obligation to review the appraisal paid for by the Lessee; provided however, that such appraisal shall not be binding on Lessor. Within 15 days of its review of the Lessee's objection and any independent appraisal, Lessor shall either (1) confirm the original Adjusted Monthly Rent as the new rental rate; (2) accept the Lessee's proposed adjustment as the new rental rate; or (3) provide Lessee notice of a binding adjusted monthly rental that is a compromise between the two previously proposed rates. In determining the fair market rental value of the Leased Land, the appraisers shall take into account current real estate values for comparable leased land parcels in the South Seattle Industrial Area, and all other circumstances customarily regarded by real estate appraisers as material. Fees and expenses of the appraisers appointed by each party shall be paid by that party.

 4.2 Late Payment Charges. If Lessee is more than ten (10) days late in making any rental payment provided for herein, a late payment charge shall be due in addition to the monthly payment. The late payment charge shall be in the amount of five percent (5%) of the monthly payment. Lessor shall notify Lessee, in accordance with Section 19 of this Lease, if any rental payments are late. Payment shall be made within five (5) days of Lessee's receipt of the late payment notice from Lessor.

 5. Payment of Taxes, Utilities and Other Charges.

 5.1. State Leasehold Excise Tax. Lessee covenants and agrees to pay monthly and before delinquency the state leasehold excise tax in the annual amount of 12.84% of the rent, or at any revised rate as may be adjusted by state law in the future.

 5.2 Other Taxes, Utilities and Charges. The Lessee hereby covenants and agrees to pay, before delinquency, all taxes, general and special, assessments, including assessments for local improvements, all charges for electricity, telephone, heat, gas, water, sewer, surface waters and garbage removal, and all other public service or utility charges of every kind and type, inspection fees, and every other charge of every and any kind, whether herein enumerated or otherwise, that may be levied, assessed, charged, or imposed upon or against the Leased Land which are attributable to Lessee's use thereof or any improvements thereon which are owned, used or installed by Lessee during the term of this Lease. Lessee shall not be liable for taxes, assessments or charges attributable to Lessor's use of or facilities located on the Leased Land. In the case of assessments for local improvements or betterments that are assessed or imposed during the term of this Lease and that may be payable in installments, the assessments may be paid over the longest period of time that is permitted by the assessing agency, and Lessee shall only be obligated to pay the installments that fall due during the term of this Lease and any extension hereof. This shall be an absolutely net Lease, and shall at all times yield to the Lessor the net rental provided for in this Lease, except for any income taxes that may be payable by the Lessor to the United States of America or to any state or local government under any existing or future law. Upon Lessor's request, Lessee shall deliver to the Lessor, within thirty (30) days of Lessor's request, evidence of payment, showing payment of all said taxes, assessments and charges.

 6. Use of Leased Land.

 6.1 Compliance with Laws. The Lessee and the Lessor shall comply with all laws, rules, orders, ordinances and regulations of any governmental agency having jurisdiction of the Leased Land, affecting said Leased Land, or their respective use thereof. Lessee shall not do or permit anything to be done in, on or about the Leased Land, nor keep or bring anything therein, which will cause a cancellation of any insurance policy covering said Leased Land or any part thereof. Except as contained in Section 6.2, Lessor has made no representations that the condition of the Leased Land on the date of the commencement of the term hereof complies with the requirements of any federal, state, county, or other governmental entity and that any governmental permits have been obtained or are in good standing with reference to the ownership or use of the Leased Land. The Lessee agrees to comply with all such lawful governmental rules, orders, ordinances, and regulations and to obtain any such permits required by its use of the Leased Land, all at its sole cost and expense.

 Lessee agrees to fully comply with all applicable requirements of City of Seattle Ordinance 101432, particularly with respect to Section 3.2, now Seattle Code Section 20.44.04, as it relates to Lessee's occupation of the Leased Land. Lessee also agrees to follow and comply with the instructions for the implementation of Ordinance 101432 as set forth in the "Instructions for Lease Compliance, Ordinance 101432" as it relates to Lessee's occupation of the Leased Land. Said Section 3.2 is attached hereto as Exhibit A and by this reference is made a part hereof.

 Lessee agrees to fully comply with all applicable requirements of the municipality, or other government entity, having jurisdiction over the Leased Land in connection with the use of the Leased Land provided that the provisions of this Lease shall prevail in the event of conflict.

 6.2 Lessor's Warranty. Lessor hereby warrants and represents to Lessee that:

 6.2.1 Authority. Lessor has full power and authority to execute and deliver this Lease. This Lease is valid, binding and enforceable against Lessor in accordance with its terms. The execution of this Lease will not result in a breach of the terms and conditions of nor constitute a default under or violation of any agreement or other instrument or obligation to which Lessor may be bound or affected, where such a breach or default would prevent the consummation of this transaction.

 6.2.2 Title. Lessor has good and marketable title to the Leased Land subject only to those encumbrances and easements of record as of the date hereof.

 6.2.3 Monetary Liens. Lessor warrants that it has not authorized any actions for itself which would result in monetary liens against the Leased Land as of the date hereof.

 6.2.4 Encumbrances. Lessor warrants that there are no assessments, which have been levied against the Leased Land, becoming due during the term of this lease.

 6.2.5 Litigation. Lessor warrants that there is no litigation, investigation or other proceeding pending or, to the best of its knowledge, threatened against or relating to the Leased Land.

 6.2.6 Quiet Enjoyment. Lessor warrants that during the term of the Lease, so long as Lessee is not in default of the terms of this Lease, Lessee shall be entitled to the quiet enjoyment of the Leased Land, EXCEPT as described in Section 7.

 6.3 Pollutants and Hazardous Substances.

 6.3.1 Compliance with Environmental Laws and Definitions . During the term of this Lease, Lessee shall comply with any and all Environmental Laws and Requirements (as defined below) and shall not cause or knowingly permit the presence of any Hazardous Substance (as defined below) on the Leased Land or on adjoining property which would violate any such Environmental Laws and Requirements.

 A) As used herein, the term "Hazardous Substance" means, regardless of quantity, any hazardous, toxic, or dangerous substance, waste or material which is regulated under any Environmental Laws and Requirements including, but not limited to, petroleum and petroleum based products. "Hazardous Substance" shall include any substance, chemical, material, or waste the presence or release of which requires investigation, reporting, remediation, or are otherwise regulated or controlled under any and all Environmental Laws and Requirements, and shall include, but not be limited to, those classified, defined, or designated as hazardous or toxic under the following laws or any agency regulation promulgated pursuant to the following laws, including any future amendments thereto:

 Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 42 U.S.C. Section 6901 et. seq.

 Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. Section 9601 et seq.

 Federal Hazardous Materials Transportation Control Act, 49 U.S.C. Section 1801 et. seq.

 Federal Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 7401 et seq.

 Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Federal Clean Water Act of 1977, 33 U.S.C. Section 1251 et seq.

 Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, Fed. Pesticide Act of 1978, 7 U.S.C. Section 136 et seq.

 Federal Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 2601 et seq.

 Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 300f et seq.

 Washington Water Pollution Control Act, RCW Chapter 90.48.

 Washington Clean Air Act, RCW Chapter 70.94.

 Washington Solid Waste Management-Recovery and Recycling Act. RCW Chapter 70.95.

 Washington Hazardous Waste Management Act,, RCW Chapter 70.105.

 Washington Hazardous Waste Fees Act, RCW Chapter 70.105A.

 Washington Model Toxic Control Act, RCW Chapter 70.105 et seq.

 Washington Nuclear Energy and Radiation Act, RCW Chapter 70.98.

 Washington Radioactive Waste Storage and Transportation Act of 1980, RCW Chapter 70.99.

 All applicable City and County storm water, drainage and erosion regulations.

 B) As used herein, the term "Environmental and Safety Laws and Requirements" means any and all federal, state, local law, statute, ordinance, rule, regulation and/or common law relating to environmental protection, contamination, the release, generation, production, transport, treatment, processing, use, disposal, or storage of any Hazardous Substance, and the regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies pursuant to these laws, and any federal, state and local regulatory agency or judicial orders, requirements, obligations, directives, notices, approvals, licenses, permits regarding the reporting, investigation, cleaning, or remediation of any Hazardous Substance, toxic or chemical substance or contaminants on the Leased Land or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment including river and stream habitat, and includes safety requirements relating to the disposal and treatment of Hazardous Substances and to regulations regarding disposal of solid wastes from storm water facilities.

 6.3.2 No Hazardous Substances. Lessee shall not cause to occur upon the Leased Land or knowingly permit the Leased Land to be used to generate, produce, manufacture, refine, transport, treat, store, handle, dispose, transfer, or process any Hazardous Substance, nor shall Lessee knowingly permit or cause any other person or entity under Lessee's control, including any tenant to allow the same to occur on the Leased Land, or to migrate to any other property in violation of Environmental Laws and Requirements.

 Upon notice or discovery of any release of any Hazardous Substance caused by Lessee or expressly authorized by Lessee to occur upon the Leased Land, Lessee shall take immediately all necessary steps to report, respond to, and clean up the same and restore the Leased Land to its preexisting condition in accordance with applicable Environmental Laws and Requirements and shall report any such release, to the Lessor within 24 hours of discovery.

 6.3.3 Notification. If Lessee shall become aware of or receive notice or other communication from any governmental agency or authority concerning any actual, alleged, suspected, or threatened violation of any and all Environmental Laws and Requirements in connection with the Leased Land or past or present activities of any person thereon, including but not limited to written or oral contact from the State of Washington Department of Ecology or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or any other regulatory agency concerning the condition of the Leased Land or any notice or other communication concerning any actual or threatened investigation, inquiry, lawsuit, claim, citation, directive, summons and complaint, writ or injunction relating to the same, then Lessee shall deliver to Lessor within ten (10) days of the receipt of such contact by Lessee, a copy of the same together with a letter indicating Lessee's response if any to such notice or communication. Receipt of such notice by Lessor shall not be deemed an obligation on the part of Lessor to defend or otherwise respond to such notification except to the extent otherwise provided by law or this Lease.

 7. Improvements.

 7.1 By Lessee. No additional building or structure of any type shall be constructed or placed upon the Leased Land.

 7.1.1. Plantings will be limited to and maintained at a height below twelve (12) feet.

 7.1.2. If fencing is installed, Lessee shall install gate(s), constructed to Lessor's specifications, for Lessor's access to the Leased Land. Lessor shall provide its own lock for the gate(s). Metal fencing shall be grounded in a manner approved by Lessor.

 7.2 By Lessor. Lessor reserves for itself, its successors, and assigns the right to construct, operate, and maintain additional overhead and/or underground distribution lines, together with but not limited to, the necessary poles, guy wires, anchors, vaults, and cables on the Leased Land ("Facilities"). Lessor's additional use of the Leased Land shall not render the Leased Land substantially unusable for Lessee's existing use as parking for and as access to Lessee's adjacent property.

 8. Acceptance and Care of Premises. The Lessee covenants and agrees that the Leased Land shall be occupied and used in an orderly, fit, and sanitary condition, in compliance with Sections 6.1 and 6.3 of this Lease and that the Leased Land shall be left in the same or better condition at the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease as existed on the Effective Date, except that Lessee shall remove at its cost and expense any improvements placed on the Leased Land by Lessee.

 9. Surrender of Premises. Lessee agrees that at the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease, it will quit and surrender the Leased Land without notice and will deliver the Leased Land to the Lessor free and clear of all liens and encumbrances of any kind or nature, except those existing as of the date of this Lease and any assessments for local improvements or betterments as described in Section 5 of this Lease. Lessee will also remove at its expense any or all improvements permitted by this Lease or hereafter permitted by Lessor on the Leased Land, except that Lessee will not be required to remove the asphalt parking surface.

 At the conclusion of this Lease, Lessor shall, at it's option, conduct a final site assessment to verify that the Leased Land's original environmental condition has been maintained during the Lease term. The cost of the assessment shall be shared equally between the Lessor and the Lessee. Lessee shall fully remediate and restore any environmental damage to the Leased Land caused by the Lessee during the term of this Lease.

 10. No Liens or Encumbrances. Lessee agrees not to permit any lien or encumbrance from any source or for any purpose whatsoever to be placed against Lessor's interest in said Leased Land.

 11. Insolvency. In the event that Lessee becomes insolvent, voluntarily or involuntarily bankrupt, or if a receiver, assignee, or other liquidating officer is appointed for the property of the Lessee, and such receiver, assignee, or other liquidating officer is not discharged within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of his/her appointment, then the Lessor may terminate this Lease at its sole option.

 12. Hold Harmless, Release and Liability Insurance.

 12.1 Lessee's Indemnification. Lessee, its successors, assigns, and guarantors agree to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Lessor, its officers, and employees from and against any and all claims, demands, suits, damages, losses, liens, penalties, fines, expenses of every kind and nature, including attorney's fees, and liability for the following:

 12.1.1 Any claims or liability arising from accident or injury or damage to property on or about the Leased Land caused by the wrongful or negligent acts or omissions of Lessee, its agents, tenants, licensees, invitees, employees, or other occupants of the Leased Land.

 12.1.2 Any claims or liability for injury, loss or damage to the extent arising from Lessee's use, occupancy or control of the Leased Land arising from exposure of Lessee, its agents, tenants, licensees, invitees, employees, or other occupants of the Leased Land to any existing or future levels of electric and magnetic fields (EMF).

 12.1.3 Any activities or use of the Leased Land by the Lessee which cause or knowingly permit the release or the threatened release of any Hazardous Substance on the Leased Land.

 12.1.4 This indemnification shall survive the termination of this Lease.

 This indemnification shall not apply to Hazardous Substances generated, discharged, or deposited on the Leased Land prior to the Effective Date of this Lease. Additionally, this indemnification shall not apply to Hazardous Substances generated, discharged or deposited on the Leased Land after the Effective Date which arise from Lessor's activities on the Leased Land, and shall not apply to Hazardous Substances which migrate onto the Leased Land from off- site.

 Lessor, at its sole expense may employ additional counsel of its choice to associate with counsel defending against any such claims, lawsuits, or administrative proceedings.

 12.2 Lessee's Insurance. Lessee, at Lessee's own cost and expense, will provide and keep in full force and effect during the term of this Lease, public liability insurance with limits of not less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) covering injuries to persons, including death, and loss of or damage to real and personal property. Such insurance may be provided under Lessee's blanket comprehensive liability insurance policy. During the term of this Lease, Lessor shall be named as an additional insured under such insurance to the extent of Lessee's undertaking set forth in Section 12.1.1 and 12.1.2 entitled "Lessee's Indemnification," including claims attributed to electromagnetic fields and any claims of accident, injury, or damage arising from Lessee's use of the Leased Land. A certificate evidencing such insurance coverage shall be delivered to Lessor not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the commencement of the Term hereof. Such certificate of insurance will provide Lessor with at least thirty (30) days advance notice of any changes or modifications in Lessee's insurance coverage on the Leased Land, including but not limited to, any cancellation of coverage.

 12.3 Lessee's Release. Lessee agrees to release Lessor, its officers, and employees, from any present or future claims injuries, damages, liability, losses, or expenses of every kind and nature, including attorney fees, which Lessee may have that arise from or may be related to exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMF) associated with Lessee's use of the Leased Land.

 13. Eminent Domain.

 13.1 Termination of Lease as to Portion Taken. If, during the term of this Lease, a portion of the Leased Land shall be taken from the Lessor as the result of the exercise of the power of eminent domain, or pursuant to negotiation under the threat of the power of eminent domain, this Lease shall thereupon terminate as to such portion so taken, and shall remain in full force and effect as the remaining portion, and the amount of the rental to become payable thereunder on or after the date title is vested in or possession taken by the condemnor, whichever first occurs, pursuant to the eminent domain proceedings, shall be reduced in the ratio that the portion taken of the square foot area of the land described in Section 1 hereof bears to the entire square foot area of said land described in Section 1 hereof; provided, however, that if the taking renders the Leased Land unsuitable for the use contemplated by the Lessee as parking for and access to Lessee's adjacent property, Lessee shall have the option at its sole discretion to terminate this Lease as of the date title is vested in or possession taken by the condemnor. Such option shall be exercised by notice given to Lessor sixty (60) days prior to the proposed termination date.

 13.2 Taking. In the event of an eminent domain taking, the Parties agree that Lessor shall be entitled to all condemnation awards granted for the taking of the land and improvements, except any sums awarded as compensation for the improvements placed on the Leased Land by Lessee.

 14. Right of Termination.

 14.1 In addition to the specific rights of Lessee to terminate this Lease as more particularly set forth in this Lease, at any time during the term of this Lease, Lessee shall have a general right to terminate this Lease in the event that it determines, at its sole discretion, the Leased Land has become unsuitable for the uses designated in Section 2 above. In such event, Lessee shall provide Lessor no less than sixty (60) days written notice prior to the proposed termination date, unless otherwise specified in this Lease. The indemnifications, duties to comply with law and duties to restore property, provided under this Lease, shall survive termination.

 14.2 If, at any time during the Lease Term, Lessor determines in its sole discretion that it requires use of the Leased Land for either the expansion of the South Substation or the development of a new facility, Lessor shall have a one time right to terminate this Lease upon 120 days prior written notice to Lessee of such need and of Lessor's election to so terminate the Lease; provided, however, that this Lease shall continue in full force and effect if, within 90 days of receipt of such notice from Lessor, Lessee elects at its sole discretion to continue to lease the Leased Land under the terms of this Lease (A) at a rental rate that is twice the Rent set forth in Section 4.1.A of this Lease, or (B) Lessee locates an available parcel of property that is comparable to the Leased Land and is suitable to satisfy Lessor's need for the Leased Land (the "Alternative Property") and Lessor is able to negotiate and enter into either a lease or a purchase agreement for the acquisition of the Alternative Property upon terms that are reasonably satisfactory to Lessor. In any negotiations or transaction for the acquisition of the Alternative Property, Lessor shall be obligated to act in good faith and to use commercially reasonable efforts to complete such transaction. In the event Lessee does not elect to continue the Lease as provided in this Section 14.2 after receipt of Lessor's termination notice, Lessee shall have the option to terminate this Lease upon 30 days prior written notice.

 15. Default. If at any time during the term of this Lease the Lessee shall fail to pay the rent provided for herein or if the Lessee shall fail to comply with any of the other terms and conditions of this Lease, the Lessor shall have the right, but not the obligation, to give written notice to the Lessee to pay such rent or otherwise comply with the terms and provisions of this Lease, as the case may be. If the failure to pay rent is not cured within ten (10) days, or any other default(s) under this Lease is not cured within thirty (30) days of Lessee's receipt of Lessor's written notice as to the default, or within such lesser period as the Lessor determines is reasonable if the Lessor determines that the condition caused by such default is a threat to public health and safety, or the environment, the Lessor shall have, in addition to such remedies as may be afforded by the laws of the State of Washington, the power and right to declare this Lease terminated and reenter the Leased Land, but notwithstanding such remedies or termination and reentry by the Lessor the liability of the Lessee for the rent provided for herein shall continue up to the date of termination, and in discharge of such liability, the Lessee covenants and agrees to make good to the Lessor any deficiency arising from the reentry, removal of personal property and/or improvements, and restoration of the Leased Land and to pay such deficiency upon demand of Lessor.

 16. Lessor May Perform. If the Lessee fails to do any act or thing required to be done by the Lessee under this Lease, except to pay rent, the Lessor shall have the right, but not the obligation, to notify the Lessee of such failure, and give the Lessee thirty (30) days to perform such act or thing, except for conditions which pose a threat to public health, safety or the environment. In the event Lessee fails to perform within said thirty (30) days, the Lessor shall have the right at its sole option, but not the obligation, to do such act or thing on behalf of the Lessee and upon notification of the Lessor's reasonable expenditure in connection therewith, the Lessee shall immediately repay the Lessor the amount thereof plus interest at eight (8) percent per annum, from the date of the Lessor's invoice for said expenditure to the date of the Lessee's repayment.

 17. Attorneys' Fees. If any suit or legal action is instituted in connection with any controversy or default arising out of this Lease, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover costs including such sum as the court may adjudge as reasonable attorney fees and reasonable attorneys' fees on appeal.

 18. Non-Waiver. The failure of either party to insist upon strict performance of any of the terms and provisions of this Lease shall not be construed as a waiver or relinquishment of any such terms or conditions, or of any other term or condition, but the same shall be and remain in full force and effect. The receipt of rent, with or without knowledge of any breach of this Lease, shall be construed to be payment for the use and occupancy of the Leased Land and shall not be deemed or claimed to be a waiver as to any term or provision of this Lease unless the same be in writing signed by the Lessor.

 19. Notices. Any notice, consent, request, or other communication provided for in this Lease shall be in writing. Such notice, consent, request, or other communication shall be sent by mail to the Lessor, by mailing the same to Lessor at:

 Seattle City Light

 Real Estate Services

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3300, Room 3012

 Seattle, WA 98104-5031

 Such notice, consent, request or other communication shall be sent by mail to the Lessee, by mailing the same to Lessee at:

 Norman Levin

 701 Fifth Avenue

 Seattle, WA 98104-7016

 Notices sent by mail shall be deemed to have been given when properly mailed; the postmark affixed by United States Post Office shall be conclusive evidence of the date of mailing.

 The party to receive the notice, consent, request, or other communication may hereafter designate another address to the other party, in which case the notice, consent, request or other communication shall be sent to that other address. Alternatively, such notice, consent, request or other communication may be personally delivered to the party to receive the same.

 20. Holdover. Lessee may request authorization from Lessor to holdover after the expiration of this Lease, provided said request is made in writing 180 days prior to said expiration date. If, upon receiving the written consent of Lessor, Lessee shall holdover, such tenancy shall be for an indefinite period of time on a month-to-month tenancy, subject to cancellation at any time upon 30 days written notice. During such tenancy, Lessee agrees to pay Lessor a rate of rental adjusted by Lessor to the then current fair market value. Lessee's tenancy shall be subject to all provisions of this Lease, insofar as they are applicable to a month-to-month tenancy or any revision of conditions deemed necessary by Lessor or required by regulation or statute.

 21. Assignment. Lessee agrees that it will not assign this Lease or any part thereof, without the prior written consent of Lessor, which consent Lessor shall not unreasonably withhold. Lessor shall respond to Lessee's request for approval of assignment within thirty (30) days unless Lessor requests an extension in writing.

 22. Estoppel Certificates. Both Lessor and Lessee agree at any time from time to time upon not less than forty (40) days prior written notice by the other party, to execute, acknowledge, and deliver to the other party a statement in writing certifying that this Lease is unmodified and in full force and effect (or if there have been modifications that the Lease is in full force and effect as modified and stating the modifications), and the dates to which the rent and other charges have been paid in advance, if any, it being intended that such statement delivered pursuant to this section may be relied upon by prospective purchasers, lenders, assignees, and sublessees.

 23. Binding Effect. The covenants and agreements of this Lease shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Lessor and the Lessee and their heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns.

 24. Recording Memorandum of Lease. The parties agree to execute and record a Memorandum of this Lease in the form attached to this agreement as Exhibit B or as such form may be modified as required by a title insurance company insuring Lessee's leasehold estate or the interest of any leasehold mortgagee or fee mortgagee, and sufficient to give constructive notice of the Lease to subsequent purchasers and mortgagees. In the event of any conflict between the terms of such Memorandum of Lease and this Lease Agreement, the terms of this Lease Agreement shall prevail.

 25. Time. Time is of the essence of this Lease.

 26. No Partnership. The relationship between the Parties is one of independent contract. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as creating a partnership, joint venture, agency or other relationship.

 27. Applicable Law and Venue. This Lease shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in the Superior Court for King County, Washington.

 28. Subject Headings. All indexes, titles, subject headings, section titles, and similar items are provided for the purpose of reference and convenience and are not intended to affect the meaning of the content or scope of this Lease.

 29. Entire Agreement. This Lease supersedes all prior agreements, proposals, representations, negotiations, discussions, or letters, whether oral or in writing, regarding the subject matter of this Lease. No change to this Lease will be effective unless the change is in writing and signed by both Parties.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, pursuant to the provisions of Ordinance  of the City of Seattle, the parties hereto have executed this Lease thereunto duly authorized the day and year indicated below their signatures.

 CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation

 By:____________________________ Date:________________

 Gary Zarker, Superintendent

 Seattle City Light

 WEST BEST BUIILDING COMPANY. L.L.P., a Washington Limited Liability Partnership

 By:____________________________ Date:________________

 Title

 By:____________________________ Date:________________

 Title

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that GARY ZARKER signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute this instrument and acknowledged it as Superintendent of the City Light Department of the City of Seattle to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Date:

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at

 My commission expires:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF ___________ )

 On this _____________day of ________________20___, before me personally appeared __________________, to me known to be the _______________, and _______________, to me known to be the __________________ of WEST BEST BUILDING COMPANY, L.L.P., the limited liability partnership that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and he/she/they acknowledged that said instrument was the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and he/she/they on oath stated that he/she/they was/were authorized to execute said instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day and year above written.

 ____________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at ___________________

 My commission expires:________

 lease\westbestrev10.17.01

 (..continued)

```
