

********

**Council Bill Number: 113938**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Sections 23.41.004, 23.41.014, 23.71.020, 23.71.028, 23.71.029, 23.76.029, 23.76.004, and 23.76.026 to revise the requirements for General Development Plans in the Northgate Overlay District, and for Design Review and adding a new Section 23.71.031 relating to the duration of a General Development Plan, and 23.71.032 relating to the sale or transfer of property subject to a General Development Plan.

**Status:** Retired 04/05/04
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Godden, Steinbrueck)
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 29, 2001
   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Sustainability and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, NORTHGATE, PLANNING, LAND-USE-PLANNING, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, PEDESTRIANS, DESIGN-REVIEW, CITIZENS-ADVISORY-COMMITTEES, CITIZEN-PARTICIPATION, BOARDS-AND-COMMISSIONS, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 119972, 119971, 119239

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Sections 23.41.004, 23.41.014, 23.71.020, 23.71.028, 23.71.029, 23.76.029, 23.76.004, and 23.76.026 to revise the requirements for General Development Plans in the Northgate Overlay District, and for Design Review and adding a new Section 23.71.031 relating to the duration of a General Development Plan, and 23.71.032 relating to the sale or transfer of property subject to a General Development Plan.

 WHEREAS, Policy 13 of the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan states that General Development Plans (GDPs) shall be required to ensure that the development of super-blocks in the Northgate Area supports and reinforces the vehicular/pedestrian balance envisioned to complement transit use in the Northgate Overlay; and

 WHEREAS, GDP elements are intended to help promote pedestrian circulation by establishing a functional and attractive pedestrian network, efficient vehicle circulation that minimizes disruption to pedestrian circulation, adequate amenities such as landscaping and open space to encourage use of the pedestrian network, development compatible with adjacent areas, and conditions that support increased use of transit or other alternatives to single-occupant vehicles; and

 WHEREAS, experience with the GDP provisions of the Northgate Overlay District has revealed the need to amend procedural requirements in order to:

 a. maximize GDP effectiveness as a tool to implement the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan;

 b. clarify the lines of authority and responsibility in GDP decision making;

 c. increase effectiveness from citizen input;

 d. promote early citizen input into design review; and

 e. set up a GDP process that functions clearly and effectively,

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subsection A of Section 23.41.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119972, is hereby amended as follows:

 SMC 23.41.004 Applicability.

 A. Design Review Required.

 1. Design review is required for any new multifamily or commercial structure that exceeds SEPA thresholds if the structure:

 a. Is located in one (1) of the following zones: i. Lowrise (L3, L4), ii. Midrise (MR), iii. Highrise (HR), iv. Neighborhood Commercial (NC1, 2, 3), or v. Seattle Cascade Mixed (SCM); or

 b. Is located in a Commercial (C1 or C2) zone, and i. The proposed structure is located within an urban village area identified in the Seattle Comprehensive Plan, or ii. The site of the proposed structure abuts or is directly across a street or alley from any lot zoned single-family, or iii. The proposed structure is located in the area bounded by NE 95th Street on the south, NE 145th Street on the north, 15th Ave NE on the west, and Lake Washington on the east.

 2. Design review is required for all new Major Institution structures that exceed SEPA thresholds in the zones listed in subsection A1 of this section, unless the structure is located within a Major Institution Overlay (MIO) district.

 3. Downtown design review is required for all new multifamily and commercial structures greater than or equal to the following thresholds:

 DOC 1 and DOC 2 Zones Use Threshold Nonresidential 50,000 square feet of Gross floor area Residential 20 dwelling units

 DRC, DMC, DMR, DH1, DH2

 Use Threshold Nonresidential 20,000 square feet of Gross Floor area Residential 20 dwelling units

 4. Design review is required for all new structures exceeding one hundred and twenty (120) feet in width on any single street frontage in the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District as shown in Exhibit 23.41.006A.

 5. New multifamily or commercial structures in the zones listed in subsection A1 of this section, that are subject to SEPA solely as a result of the provisions of Section 25.05.908, Environmentally Critical Areas, are exempt from design review.

6. Early Design Guidance only as provided in 23.41.014 (B) and (C) is required for Northgate Overlay District General Development Plans and for major amendments to approved Northgate Overlay District General Development Plans where the major amendment includes development that would be subject to project-level design review.

 Section 2. Subsection C of Section 23.41.014 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119791, is hereby amended as follows:

 SMC 23.41.014 Design review process.

 A. A preapplication conference is required for all projects subject to design review, unless waived by the Director, as described at Section 23.76.008.

 B. Early Design Guidance Public Meeting.

 1. Following a preapplication conference, or for a Northgate Overlay District General Development Plan after an application for early design guidance, and site visits by Design Review Board members assigned to review a proposed project, an early design guidance public meeting with the Design Review Board shall be held.

 2. The purpose of the early design guidance public meeting shall be to identify concerns about the site and the proposed project, review the design guidelines applicable to the site, determine neighborhood priorities among the design guidelines, and explore design concepts and/or options.

 3. At the early design guidance public meeting, the project proponents shall present the following information:

 4. The proponent is encouraged, but not required, to bring one (1) or more development concepts or alternatives to indicate possible design options for the site.

 C. Guidelines Priorities.

 1. Based on the concerns expressed at the early design guidance public meeting or in writing to the Design Review Board, the Board shall identify any guidelines that may not be applicable to the site and identify those guidelines of highest priority to the neighborhood. The Board shall incorporate any community consensus regarding design, expressed at the meeting into its guideline priorities, to the extent the consensus is consistent with the design guidelines and reasonable in light of the facts of the proposed development.

2. In reviewing proposed Northgate Overlay District General Development Plans or major amendments to Northgate Overlay District General Development Plans, the Board shall consider the comments of the General Development Plan Citizens Advisory Committee.

~~2~~3. The Director shall distribute a copy of the guideline priorities applicable to the development to all those who attended the early design guidance public meeting, to those who sent in comments or otherwise requested notification, and to the project proponent.

~~3~~4. The project proponent is encouraged to meet with the Board and the public for early resolution of design issues, and may hold additional optional meetings with the public or the Board. The Director may require the proponent to meet with the Board if the Director believes that such a meeting may help to resolve design issues.

 ***

 Section 3. Section 23.71.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116795, is hereby amended as follows:

 SMC 23.71.020 General Development Plan (GDP) requirement.

 A. On all sites of six (6) acres or more the owner shall submit and obtain approval of a GDP~~General Development Plan~~ when one (1) or more of the conditions identified in subsection C of this section is met.

 B. For the purposes of this section a "site" is all contiguous parcels of property, including parcels separated only by rights-of- way, which are under common ownership, or under the ownership of several individuals or entities who have agreed to common management of all or a portion of the parcels.

 C. A G~~eneral~~D~~evelopment~~P~~lan~~ shall be prepared when the owner proposes one (1) or more of the following~~occurs~~:

 1. Development of more than four thousand (4,000) square feet of commercial floor area ~~,~~;

2. ~~or~~redevelopment of more than four thousand (4,000) square feet of commercial floor area, if the redevelopment includes a change of use; ~~and/or~~

3~~2~~ for any use,~~C~~creation of new parking ~~facilities~~spaces for over forty (40) vehicles~~spaces~~; ~~and/or~~

4~~3~~. a ~~R~~rezone ~~applications~~; ~~and/~~ or

5. a residential use that is subject to SEPA review pursuant to SMC 25.05. ~~; and/or~~

~~4.Conditional use applications; and/or~~5.Requests for variance(s) from the requirements of this chapter.

 D.~~The General Development Plan shall be reviewed by the Director as a Type II master use permit decision, as provided in Chapter 23.76, Procedures For Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions. E.~~ A GDP~~General Development Plan~~ is not required for that portion of a site for which a Major Institution Master Plan is required pursuant to Chapter 23.69.

 Section 4. Section 23.71.028 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119239, is hereby amended as follows:

 SMC 23.71.028 General Development Plan (GDP) adoption and amendment process.

 A. Consistency required. To obtain approval, a GDP ~~General Development Plan~~or amendments to a GDP must be consistent with the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan and the provisions of this chapter.

B. Decision types.  1. A GDP or major amendment to a GDP shall be reviewed by the Director as a Type II master use permit decision, as provided in Chapter 23.76, Procedures For Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions. In the event of a conflict between procedures prescribed for a Type II decision and the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter prevail.

 2. Minor amendments to a GDP shall be reviewed as Type I decisions pursuant to the Master Use Permit and Land Use Decisions procedures of chapter 23.76.

~~B. An Advisory Committee to the Director shall be established by the Director for each general development plan required. The composition of the committee shall be a balanced group representing all interests including the applicant, neighborhoods, the business community, and property owners, except that the applicant's representative shall not participate in a vote on the recommendation to the Director, as described in subsection B2 below.~~

C. General Development Plan Citizens' Advisory Committee (Advisory Committee)  1. An advisory committee to the Director shall be established by the Council to review proposed GDPs and major amendments to GDPs.

 2. The role of the Advisory Committee is to provide comments and recommendations to the Director as to the consistency of a proposed GDP or proposed GDP major amendment with the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan and the provisions of this chapter.

 3.

 The Advisory Committee shall perform the following ~~functions~~tasks:

a. Provide comments and recommendations to the Design Review Board as part of the early design guidance process for approval of the GDP;

~~1.~~b. Review the contents of a ~~draft~~proposed GDP~~general development plan~~or GDP major amendment;

c. Consider the Design Review Board's guidance in the Advisory Committee's recommendations;  d. Solicit and consider public comments on a proposed GDP or GDP major amendment and hold at least one public meeting to solicit public comment;

 e. Solicit and consider public comments on the Director's draft decision and hold at least one public meeting to solicit public comment on the Director's draft decision; and

~~2.~~f. Within a time period established by the Director, ~~recommend~~submit written comments and recommendations including any suggested changes or additions to the Director ~~any suggested changes or additions to the draft~~regarding the proposed GDP~~general development plan~~,~~or~~GDP major amendment or the Director's draft decision. Failure to provide timely comments shall not be the basis for an appeal of the Director's decision.

4. Upon receipt of an application for approval of a GDP or for design guidance on a GDP, the Director of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use shall transmit to the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods a copy of the application. Upon receipt of the application, the Department of Neighborhoods shall initiate the establishment of the Advisory Committee. The Department of Neighborhoods shall develop a list of potential members to serve on the Advisory Committee based on the qualifications contained in subsection 5 of this section. The Director of the Department of Neighborhoods shall forward a set of potential members to the City Council.  5. The committee shall consist of at least nine (9) and no more than fifteen (15) voting members. Advisory Committee members shall be selected using the following criteria:

 a. Members shall be Seattle residents, except business and development interest members, who need not reside, but must work for or own a business in Seattle; and

 b. Members shall be a balanced group representing all interests and may be selected for appointment to the Advisory Committee from area community councils and City-sponsored district councils, residents, property owners, and businesspersons.

 6. The City Council shall appoint the members of the committee by resolution. The City Council may make changes in the size and/or composition of the Advisory Committee, within the size range contained in subsection 5 of this section, or remand the matter to the Department of Neighborhoods for further action.

 7. If the GDP is approved, the Committee has no further duties, except for the consideration of major amendments to the GDP, as provided in section 23.71.028G and 23.71.028C (10), below.

 8. The Director shall reconvene the Advisory Committee for the purpose of reviewing major amendments. If necessary, new members will be appointed in the same manner as the original committee. The Advisory Committee shall be governed by the joint Directors' rules established for the conduct of Advisory Committees for the consideration of new GDPs. The Advisory Committee shall be given the opportunity to review a proposed major amendment, including providing comments and recommendations on any early design guidance required for a major amendment. The Advisory Committee also shall be given the opportunity to submit comments on what conditions (if any) should be imposed. The Director shall consider the comments and recommendations of the Advisory Committee.

 D. Director's draft decision. Prior to making a final decision on a proposed new GDP or major amendment to an existing GDP the Director shall issue a draft decision for review by the Advisory Committee and public. The draft decision shall include an explanation of how the Director's recommendation on the proposed GDP is consistent with applicable Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan policies.

 E. Director's final decision.

 1. The Director's final decision shall include a response to each recommendation of the Advisory Committee on the Director's draft decision, and an explanation of how the Director's final decision is consistent with this chapter and applicable Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan policies.

 2. The Director may approve, approve subject to conditions, or deny a GDP or an amendment to a GDP.

 F. Requirement for revised plan. The Director may require that the applicant submit revised documentation, sufficient to illustrate the complete approved GDP. The applicant shall submit seven (7) copies of the documentation to the Director. The Director shall keep one (1) copy and distribute the other six (6) copies to the City Clerk's Office, the Strategic Planning Office, the Department of Neighborhoods and the Seattle Public Library (one (1) copy for the main downtown library and two (2) copies to go to the two (2) branch libraries nearest the site covered by the GDP).

 G. Amendments to approved General Development Plans.

 1. Determination of amendment type. The Director shall determine whether a proposed amendment to an approved GDP is a minor amendment or a major amendment. The Director's decision on whether an amendment is major or minor is a Type I decision, pursuant to Chapter 23.76. The Director shall determine at his or her discretion whether or not to reconvene the Advisory Committee to assist in the determination of whether a proposed amendment is a major or minor amendment. The decision process to determine whether a proposed amendment is major or minor does not apply if the Director and the applicant agree that a major amendment is required.

 2. Criteria for major amendments. A proposed amendment to an approved GDP is a major amendment when the amendment would result in significantly greater impacts than those contemplated for the GDP, as identified in environmental documents for the GDP. A proposal for any one, or more, of the following is deemed to have significantly greater impacts, unless the Director makes a specific finding to the contrary:

 a. An increase or decrease in floor area of any structure in the GDP if the increase or decrease is greater than five percent (5%) of the total floor area of all structures in the approved GDP;

 b. A change from residential to commercial use that results in a reduction in the number of dwelling units greater than five percent (5%) of the total dwelling units in the GDP;

 c. An increase or decrease in parking spaces by more than five percent (5%) of the spaces in the approved GDP (excluding spaces increased or decreased as a result of a major amendment pursuant to parts a. or b. of this subsection; or

 d. an amendment that, when combined with cumulative previous minor amendments, meets the criteria in a, b or c of this subsection G2. Previous minor amendments do not include amendments that have already been considered in determining that an amendment was a major amendment, if the major amendment was approved.

 An amendment that would result in significantly greater impacts is a major amendment whether or not the amendment meets the standards described in subsections a, b, or c of this section.

 3. Minor amendments. If an amendment does not meet the criteria of subsection G2 of this section the amendment is a minor amendment.

 H. Joint Directors' Rule. The Department of Neighborhoods and the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use shall establish and maintain a joint Directors' rule concerning GDP administration including Internet posting, timelines, a protocol regarding notification to the Advisory Committee of changes to a proposed GDP, the number placement of large notice signs, and identification of groups and locations to receive notice concerning GDPs, including affected governmental units. The Directors' rule shall include rules applicable to GDP Advisory Committees, including voting procedure, selection of chairpersons, process for soliciting public comment, time of day and location where the Advisory Committee shall meet, and methods of conflict resolution.

 Section 5. SMC 23.71.029 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 116795, is amended as follows:

 SMC 23.71.029 Effect of General Development Plan

 Approval.

 A. After a General Development Plan has been approved, the applicant may develop in accordance with the approved plan.

 B. The Director shall not ~~accept any application for nor~~ issue any master use permit for development subject to the General Development Plan ~~which has not been included in the approved General Development Plan or which~~that is inconsistent with an approved General Development Plan.

 C. Applications for master use permits for development contained in an approved General Development Plan are subject to the requirements of Chapter 25.05, SEPA Policies and Procedures.

 Section 6 A new Section 23.71.031, is hereby added to the Seattle Municipal Code, Title 23, to read as follows:

 NEW SECTION

 23.71.031. Duration of the General Development Plan (GDP).

 A. The duration of a GDP shall be established by the Director based on the type, size and complexity of the projects proposed in the Plan, but not to exceed ten (10) years, except as provided in subsection B of this section.

 B. The Director may extend the duration of a GDP for a period deemed reasonably necessary by the Director to complete development, provided that the Director has made a finding that there has been substantial progress toward implementation of the GDP.

 C. The duration of a GDP does not commence until all administrative and judicial appeals relating to approval of the GDP have been resolved, or until a building permit is issued for development pursuant to the GDP, whichever is earlier.

 Section 7: A new Section 23.71.032, is hereby added to the Seattle Municipal Code, Title 23, to read as follows:

 NEW SECTION

 23.71.032. Effect of sale or transfer of property subject to an adopted General Development Plan (GDP).

 A. When a portion of land subject to an approved GDP is sold or transferred, the land may, at the applicant's option, either be developed,

 1. pursuant to the approved GDP, or

 2. consistent with the Land Use Code and other land use control ordinances in effect at the time the owner seeks to develop the parcels, as prescribed in SMC 23.76.026.

 B. When land subject to an approved GDP is sold or transferred the remainder of the property not sold remains subject to the approved GDP.

 Section 8. Exhibit 23.76.004A of Section 23.76.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119974, is amended as follows:

 EXHIBIT 23.76.004 A

 LAND USE DECISION FRAMEWORK

 DIRECTOR'S AND HEARING EXAMINER'S DECISIONS REQUIRING MASTER USE PERMITS

 TYPE I Type II Type III Director's Decision Director's Decision Hearing Examiner's Decision (No Administrative Appeal) (Appealable to (No Administrative Appeal) Hearing Examiner*)

 Compliance with development standards Temporary uses, more than Subdivisions (preliminary plats) four weeks

 Uses permitted outright Variances

 Temporary uses, four weeks or less Administrative conditional uses

 Certain street uses Shoreline decisions (*appealable to Shorelines Hearings Board Lot boundary adjustments along with all related environmental appeals)

 Modifications of features bonused Short subdivisions under Title 24

 Determinations of significance (EIS Special exceptions required) except for determinations of significance based solely on Design review historic and cultural preservation

 Temporary uses, twelve months or Northgate Overlay District less, for relocation of police and General Development Plans fire protection ü and major amendments to Northgate Overlay District General Development Plans

 Exemptions from right-of-way Light rail transit facilities improvement requirements

 Special accommodation Reasonable accommodation

 Minor amendment to a Major Phased The following environmental Development Permit determinations: 1. Determination of nonsig- nificance (EIS not required) 2. Determination of final EIS adequacy 3. Determinations of significance based solely on historic and cultural preservation 4. A decision by the Director to approve, condition or deny a project based on SEPA Policies 5. A decision by the Director that a project is consistent with a Planned Action Ordinance and EIS (no threshold determination or EIS required)

Determination of whether a Major Phased Development proposed Northgate Overlay District General Development Plan change is a minor or major amendment - Approval of a minor amendment to a Northgate Overlay District General Development Plan.

 COUNCIL LAND USE DECISIONS

 TYPE IV TYPE V (Quasi -Judicial) (Legislative and General Development Plans)

 Land use map amendments Land Use Code text amendments (rezones)

 Public project approvals Rezones to implement new City Policies

 Major Institution master Concept approval for City Plans facilities

 Council conditional uses Major Institution designations

 Downtown planned community Waive or modify development developments standards for City facilities

 Planned Action Ordinance

 Section 9. SMC 23.76.026 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119728, is amended as follows:

 SMC 23.76.026 Vesting of development rights.

 A. Master Use Permit Components Other Than Subdivisions and Short Subdivisions, Design Review or Master Use Permit Components Subject to a Northgate Overlay District General Development Plan.  Applications for all Master Use Permit components except subdivisions, ~~and~~ short subdivisions, design review and those subject to a Northgate Overlay District General Development Plan, shall be considered under the Land Use Code and other land use control ordinances in effect on the date a fully complete building permit application, meeting the requirements of Section 106 of the Seattle Building Code is filed. Until a complete building permit application is filed, such Master Use Permit applications shall be reviewed subject to any zoning or other land use control ordinances that become effective prior to the date that notice of the Director's decision on the application is published, if the decision can be appealed to the Hearing Examiner, or prior to the date of the Director's decision if no Hearing Examiner appeal is available.

 An application for a building permit submitted for part of a building or structure shall be considered a complete building permit application for the purpose of this section only if the partial building permit application is for a highrise structure regulated under Section 403 of the Seattle Building Code and it includes the complete structural frame of the building or structure and schematic plans for the exterior shell of the building.

 B. Subdivision and Short Subdivision Components of Master Use Permits. An application for approval of a subdivision or short subdivision of land, as defined in Section 23.84.036"S," shall be considered under the Land Use Code and other land use control ordinances in effect when a fully complete Master Use Permit application for such approval which satisfies the requirements of Section 23.22.020 (subdivision) or Sections 23.24.020 and 23.24.030 (short subdivision) is submitted to the Director.

C. Northgate Overlay District General Development Plans (GDPs), GDP Amendments, and Master Use Permits for Proposed Development Subject to an Approved GDP.  1. An application for approval of a GDP, or minor amendment to a GDP pursuant to SMC Chapter 23.71 shall be considered under the Land Use Code, other land use control ordinances and the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan in effect on the date when a complete application for early design guidance on the GDP is submitted to the Director.

 2. An application for approval of a major amendment to a GDP shall be considered under the Land Use Code, other land use control ordinances and Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan in effect on the date when the complete application for early design guidance for the major amendment is submitted to the Director.

 3.

 a. An application for approval of a MUP for development that is subject to an approved GDP, including any minor amendments to the GDP, shall be considered under the Land Use Code, other land use control ordinances and Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan in effect on the date when a complete application for early design guidance for the GDP was submitted to the Director.

 b. An application for approval of a MUP for development that was approved as a major amendment to a GDP shall be considered under the Land Use Code, other land use control ordinances and the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan in effect at the time a complete application for early design guidance for the major amendment to the GDP was submitted to the Director.

 4.

 a. If the provisions of the Land Use Code, other land use control ordinances or the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan are amended while an application for early design guidance for a GDP or application for a minor amendment or MUP pursuant to a GDP is pending, the applicant may choose to have that application considered under either the earlier applicable versions of the Land Use Code, other land use control ordinances and/or the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan as provided in subsection 1-3 of this section, or the subsequently amended version of the Land Use Code, other land use control ordinances and the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan.

 b. If the provisions of the Land Use Code, other land use control ordinances or the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan are amended while an application for early design guidance for a major amendment to a GDP or an application for a MUP application pursuant to the major amendment is pending, the applicant may choose to have that application considered under either the earlier applicable version of the Land Use Code, other land use control ordinances and/or the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan as provided in subsection 1-3 of this section, or the subsequently amended versions of the Land Use Code, other land use control ordinances and the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan.

~~C~~D. Design Review Component of Master Use Permits.

 1. If a complete application for a Master Use Permit is filed prior to the date design review becomes required for that type of project, no design review component shall be required.

 2. A complete application for a Master Use Permit that includes a design review component shall be considered under the Land Use Code and other land use control ordinances in effect on the date a complete application for the design review early design guidance process is submitted to the Director, provided that such Master Use Permit application is filed within ninety (90) days of the date of the early design guidance public meeting. This vested right shall terminate unless a complete application for a building permit meeting the requirements of Section 106 of the Seattle Building Code (Note 1) is submitted within one hundred twenty (120) days of the date the Master Use Permit is approved for issuance.

 ***

 Section 10. Any GDP approved by the City before the effective date of this ordinance remains valid notwithstanding adoption of this ordinance. Any changes to an existing, approved GDP, such as the sale or transfer of property subject to a GDP or the proposed amendment of an existing GDP, are subject to the provisions of this ordinance, and shall not be considered vested against the application of this ordinance.

 Section 11. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provisions shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 12. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2001. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001 ___________________________________ City Clerk

 113398v4.doc November 28, 2001 V #4 t

```
