

********

**Council Bill Number: 113962**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120632**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to implementing portions of the Homeless Strategic Response Program; authorizing the Human Services Department to expend $1,000,000 and the Office of Housing to expend $1,750,000 to implement, beginning in 2002, the shelter portion and the transitional housing and support services portion of the Homeless Strategic Response Program, respectively; and directing that this ordinance be filed with the King County Superior Court in connection with litigation pertaining to the proposed Initiative Measure No. 71.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 26, 2001
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 3, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 30, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 13, 2001
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** INITIATIVES-AND-REFERENDA, HOMELESS, HOUSING, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, SHELTERS, OFFICE-OF-HOUSING

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to implementing portions of the Homeless Strategic Response Program; authorizing the Human Services Department to expend $1,000,000 and the Office of Housing to expend $1,750,000 to implement, beginning in 2002, the shelter portion and the transitional housing and support services portion of the Homeless Strategic Response Program, respectively; and directing that this ordinance be filed with the King County Superior Court in connection with litigation pertaining to the proposed Initiative Measure No. 71.

 WHEREAS, proponents filed the text of the proposed City of Seattle Initiative Measure No. 71 (I-71) with the Seattle City Clerk's office on May 22, 2001; and

 WHEREAS, the proposed I-71 stated its recognition of the need to provide further housing and support services in an effort to end homelessness for more people; and

 WHEREAS, I-71 proponents gathered signatures and submitted them to the City Clerk's office, which promptly forwarded them to the King County Director of Records and Elections for verification pursuant to state law; and

 WHEREAS, on September 6, 2001, the King County Records and Elections Division issued a Declaration of Petition Insufficiency, finding the I-71 petitions contained insufficient valid signatures; and

 WHEREAS, I-71 proponents had previously filed a lawsuit against the City (King Co. Cause No. 01-2-25494-4-SEA) seeking a court order requiring, among other things, that the City place I-71 on the November 2001 ballot; and

 WHEREAS, the Honorable Suzanne Barnett denied that remedy, but did issue an order on September 14, 2001 requiring the City Clerk to forward the proposed I-71 to the City Council for its consideration and possible placement on a ballot in 2002; and

 WHEREAS, the City is seeking appellate review of Judge Barnett's September 14, 2001 decision; and

 WHEREAS, proponents of the proposed I-71 and the City engaged in discussions to determine if an appeal of Judge Barnett's decision could be avoided or resolved; and

 WHEREAS, the proponents of the proposed I-71 and the City agree that resolving this litigation by entry of the agreed order (Attachment A to Resolution 30418) serves the interest of the homeless community that the proposed I-71 was intended to serve; and

 WHEREAS, the Court entered the agreed order on October 24, 2001, the City Council adopted Resolution 30418 on October 29, 2001, and the City Council passed an ordinance adopting the 2002 budget on November 26, 2001; and

 WHEREAS, the Court's order provides that if the City Council has passed by December 3, 2001, an ordinance or ordinances appropriating: 1) $1 Million to implement the shelter portion of the Homeless Strategic Response Program, and 2) $1.75 Million to implement the transitional housing and support services portion of the Homeless Strategic Response Program, and a certified copy of the ordinance is filed with the Court, the litigation (King Co. Cause No. 01-2-25494-4-SEA) shall be deemed dismissed with prejudice upon the effective date of the ordinance(s); NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Shelter Portion of the Homeless Strategic Response Program

 The Human Services Department is authorized to expend One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) to implement beginning in 2002 the shelter portion of the Homeless Strategic Response Program. The ordinance adopting the 2002 budget and the relevant City Council Budget Action (green sheet) pertaining to this expenditure are attached as Attachments 1 and 2, respectively.

 Although no particular results can be guaranteed, the City has the following expectations: These funds will support this effort for a total of 17 months. If fully implemented, this program will provide 170 new shelter beds and supportive services for those accessing such beds. City funds will be leveraged at least one for one by other non-City funds or in-kind contributions to implement this program.

 In order to implement the expenditures described in this section, the transfer of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) from the REACH Trust Fund in the Office of Housing's Low Income Housing Fund to the Human Services Operating Fund is hereby authorized.

 Section 2. Transitional Housing and Support Services Portion of the Homeless Strategic Response Program

 The Office of Housing is authorized to expend One Million Seven- Hundred and Fifty Thousand Dollars ($1,750,000) to implement beginning in 2002 the transitional housing and support services portion of the Homeless Strategic Response Program, as described in the 2002 City Council Budget Statement of Legislative Intent (Attachment 3), which is hereby adopted.

 Although no particular results can be guaranteed, the City has the following expectations: The funds allocated in addition to the operating/support funding provided by other sources would support this effort for the long term. If fully implemented, this program would provide 70 transitional housing units and related services for those accessing such units. City funds will be leveraged at least one for one by non-City funds or in-kind contributions to implement this program.

 Section 3. Certified Copy to be filed with the Court

 The City Clerk is directed to file a certified copy of this ordinance, with attachments, with the King County Superior Court, as described in Judge Barnett's Order dated October 24, 2001, thereby resulting in the dismissal with prejudice of the litigation (King Co. Cause No. 01-2-25494-4-SEA).

 Section 4. Conditions

 Authority to expend the funds described in Sections 1 and 2 shall immediately cease if additional I-71 petition signatures facially sufficient to potentially certify the proposed Initiative Measure No. 71 are submitted to the City Clerk, or if for any reason the proposed Initiative 71 is certified for consideration by the City Council or is placed on a ballot.

 Section 5. Effective Dates.

 This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020, provided that Sections 1 and 2 of this ordinance shall not take effect if prior to the ordinance's effective date additional I-71 petition signatures facially sufficient to potentially certify the proposed Initiative Measure No. 71 are submitted to the City Clerk, or if for any reason the proposed Initiative 71 is certified for consideration by the City Council or is placed on a ballot.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2001.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2001.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2001.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachments:

 1. Ordinance adopting the 2002 budget;

 2. City Council Budget Action (Green Sheet);

 3. City Council Budget Statement of Legislative Intent.

 gek:tr/msl

 11/09/01

 113962.doc

 (Ver. 5 )

 AN ORDINANCE adopting a budget, including a capital improvement program and listing of position changes, for The City of Seattle for fiscal year 2002.

 WHEREAS, by Resolution 24964, the City Council adopted the concept of implementing the City's Capital Improvement Program through appropriations in budgets adopted annually to the greatest extent feasible; and

 WHEREAS, the City's 2002-2007 Capital Improvement Program, in conjunction with the Capital Facilities, Utility and Transportation Elements of the Comprehensive Plan, are in accordance with the State Growth Management Act; and

 WHEREAS, the Mayor has submitted a 2002 Proposed Budget, including departmental listings of position changes for each year, filed as C.F. 304852, which incorporates certain appropriations for capital programs, and a Proposed 2002-2007 Capital Improvement Program filed as C.F. 304851; Now, Therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Proposed 2002 Annual Budget as contemplated by RCW Chapter 35.32A, shown as the second year of the biennial budget submitted by the Mayor and filed as the "2002 Proposed Budget" in Clerk File ("C.F.") 304852 and the Proposed 2002-2007 Capital Improvement Program ("CIP") recommended by the Mayor and filed as the "2002-2007 Proposed Capital Improvement Program" in C.F. 304851 are hereby adopted with the following modifications as the City's Annual Budget and its 2002-2007 Capital Improvement Program, namely: The recommendations of the Budget Committee of the City Council, as set forth in C.F. 304850 and adopted by the City Council on November 26, 2001. In case of conflicting modifications, the one of later date shall control.

 Section 2. Effective January 1, 2002, or thereafter if otherwise provided, officer and employee positions are hereby created, eliminated, or modified as shown in the departmental lists of position changes in the 2002 Proposed Budget document in C.F. 304852 as modified by the City Council as set forth in C.F. 304850 and adopted by the City Council on November 26, 2001. In case of conflicting modifications, the one of later date shall control. The administrative or organizational structure of the various City departments or agencies shown in the 2002 Annual Budget shall, for 2002, supersede any existing or inconsistent organization established in previous budgets for such department or agency.

 Section 3. (a) The amounts, or so much thereof as may be necessary, shown as appropriations for 2002 for the various capital projects or for the various capital improvement programs in the Annual Budget, are hereby appropriated from the respective funds identified for carrying out the Capital Improvement Program or the Capital Improvement Project named to be carried out by the designated City department, subject to and consistent with applicable provisions of the State Constitution and laws, and the City Charter and ordinances of The City of Seattle, substantially as described in the approved 2002-2007 Capital Improvement Program. The appropriation of money for a CIP program or project constitutes authority for the designated City department, commission or office, as appropriate and after compliance with the State Environmental Policy Act, to acquire personal property, obtain options to acquire real property, negotiate to acquire right-of-way and other real property interests, prepare plans and designs, demolish, construct, and make improvements, and obtain any ancillary services, including, without limitation, planning, engineering, design, appraisal, escrow, title insurance, construction, inspection, environmental audits and remediation appraisals or other reviews. Each department may obtain the authorized services or property using City staff or by contract as authorized in Section 5 below. Where projects or programs are identified in the CIP as to be carried out by other entities wholly or in part with City funds, the appropriation constitutes authority to provide such funds to such other entities for such purposes, subject to applicable laws and ordinances.

 (b) Moneys appropriated from funds, subfunds, accounts, and subaccounts in which are deposited the proceeds derived from the issuance of bonded obligations, shall be expended only in accordance with the terms, conditions, and restrictions of ordinances authorizing such obligations and establishing the respective funds.

 (c) Moneys appropriated from funds, subfunds, accounts, and subaccounts in which are deposited the proceeds of grants, financial assistance from the State of Washington or other governmental agencies, or gifts, bequests or devises to the City for specific purposes shall be expended only in accordance with applicable terms, conditions, restrictions and City ordinances.

 (d) The funds so appropriated shall be subject to transfer for use with other projects as provided in SMC Chapter 5.08 (for operating budgets), or as provided in Section 6 below (for CIP projects and program categories).

 (e) The 2002-2007 Capital Improvement Program is part of the Adopted Budget and identifies, among other projects, those capital projects funded wholly or in part from the proceeds of the taxes authorized in RCW 82.46.010 and/or RCW 82.46.035, and/or from the proceeds of bonds, for the repayment of which tax revenues under RCW 82.46.010 have been pledged. Such taxes are intended to be in addition to other funds that may be reasonably available for such capital projects.

 (f) The portions of the 2002-2007 Capital Improvement Program pertaining to the City Light Department and Seattle Public Utilities, as those portions of the CIP may be amended from time to time, are adopted as systems or plans of additions to and betterments and extensions of the facilities, physical plants, or systems of the City Light Department and Seattle Public Utilities, respectively.

 (g) The City Light Department's 1996 Energy Management Services Plan, endorsed by Resolution 29427 on September 16, 1996, as such plan may be amended from time to time, is adopted as a system or plan of additions to and betterments and extensions of the facilities, physical plants, or systems of the City Light Department.

 (h) The City's Director of Finance is authorized to draw and pay the necessary warrants or checks and to make any necessary transfers among funds and accounts.

 Section 4. The Mayor, or at the Mayor's request, the head of the department that is designated to carry out a project for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, is hereby authorized to submit such applications as may be deemed appropriate to the United States of America, or any of its departments, and the State of Washington, or any of its departments, for financial assistance in carrying out the authorized projects included in the 2002-2007 Capital Improvement Program, and to make for and on behalf of the City all such assurances, promises, representations, and consent to suit, and/or covenants to comply with any applicable regulations of the United States relating to implementation of such projects and activities; to act in connection with such applications as the authorized representative of the City; to provide such additional information as may be required; and to prepare plans for implementation of such terms and conditions as may accompany such grants; provided the submission of such application shall not result in the making of a contract, in incurring of any indebtedness or the acceptance of moneys imposing any duties or obligations upon the City except as shall be provided by this or other ordinance authorizing the same.

 Section 5. (a) The Transportation Director, the Superintendent of Parks, the Arts Commission Director, the Budget Director, the Superintendent of City Light, the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, the Fleets and Facilities Director, the Director of Finance, the Director of Sustainability and Environment, the City Librarian, and the Seattle Center Director are authorized to negotiate for and enter into non-public works contracts, within their appropriation authority, to obtain property and services authorized in Section 3 to carry out those capital projects included in the 2002-2007 Capital Improvement Program and assigned to their respective departments, commissions or offices.

 (b) The Board of Trustees of the Seattle Public Library is authorized, within its appropriation authority and consistent with Ordinances 119019, 119185, and 119378, to carry out the projects of the Libraries for All component of the Seattle Public Library 2002 - 2007 Capital Improvement Program. In so doing, the Board of Trustees is authorized to lease real property and enter into contracts with regard thereto.

 Section 6. The Mayor, in consultation with the Budget Director, is authorized to transfer up to ten percent (10%) of an appropriation for a particular capital improvement project or program authorized in Section 1 or Twenty-five Thousand Dollars ($25,000), whichever is greater, to another capital improvement project or capital improvement program authorized in Section 1 and to be carried out by the same department, provided:

 (a) The sum of such changes during the budget year does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the sum of:

 (i) the gross amount appropriated in the budget for the year of the transfer for capital projects to be carried out by the department, and

 (ii) unexpended balances carried forward from prior year appropriations for capital projects to be carried out by that department;

 (b) The Mayor, or at the Mayor's request the Budget Director, reports in writing to the City Council on an annual basis the nature and amount of such changes and an explanation therefor; and (c) All such changes comply with terms, conditions, and restrictions controlling the expenditure of funds so transferred, and do not infringe any covenants or any obligations, agreements, or ordinances by which the City received the moneys.

 Section 7. The Mayor, or at the Mayor's request the head of the department that is designated to carry out a capital improvement project or program, shall maintain a clear and definitive audit trail for each capital improvement project or program.

 Section 8. Preparation of plans and specifications, the execution of other contracts, and expenditures made or authorized consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 9. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ________________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ________________, 2001. _____________________________________ President______________of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of ________________, 2001. _____________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2001. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 November 20, 2001 Version 7 t

 Attachment 1 2002 City Council Budget Action (Green Sheet)

 Issue: Implementing Resolution #30418 relating to proposed I-71 (Homeless Initiative) -

 $1 million for Shelter program Version #: 1

 Department(s): Office of Housing (OH) & Human Services Department (HSD)

 Councilmember: Steinbrueck Staff Analyst: Ratzliff

 Date

 Total

 JC

 RC

 JD

 NL

 RM

 JN

 MP

 PS

 HW

 Yes

 No

 2002 Budget Effect (in dollars)

 Description

 E(xp) or R(ev)

 Summit Code

 General Fund

 Increase

 (Decrease)

 Other Fund

 Increase

 (Decrease)

 Total

 Increase

 (Decrease)

 Increase Revenues for Human Services Operating Fund by transferring in "OH - REACH Trust Fund unexpended and unencumbered balance" from the OH's Low Income Housing Fund

 R

 587164

 $1,000,000

 $1,000,000

 Increase expenditure authority in Community Services Line of Business in Human Services Department to fund shelter program included in I-71 legal settlement

 E

 H3

 $1,000,000

 $1,000,000

 Description of Proposed Council Action:

 This action would authorize the transfer of cash in the amount of $1 million from the unexpended and unencumbered balance from the REACH Trust Fund (fund number 16470) in the Office of Housing's Low Income Housing Fund to the Human Services Operating Fund for the shelter portion of the Homeless Strategic Response program (included in Resolution # 30418 relating to the Homeless Initiative). The Human Services Department is authorized to expend the $1 million for this effort. A competitive NOFA process will be used to allocate the $1 million. HSD will sign contracts and implement this program in 2002. HSD shall provide a progress report regarding implementation of this program to the Council Housing Committee no later than June 3, 2002 and a follow up report no later than September 3, 2002.

 Although no particular results can be guaranteed, the City has the following expectations regarding this effort: The funds allocated will support the shelter effort for a total of 17 months. If fully implemented, this program will provide 170 new shelter beds and supportive services for those accessing such beds. City funds will be leveraged at least one for one by other non-City funds or in- kind contributions to implement this program.

 In addition, the Council will authorize the expenditure of an additional $1.75 million from the Office of Housing to fund implementation of the transitional housing portion of the Homeless Strategic Response program (included in Resolution # 30418 relating to the Homeless Initiative). See accompanying Statement of Legislative Intent (SLI) regarding this program.

 The Council will adopt a separate ordinance making the necessary appropriations. See accompanying ordinance (available in Round 2).

 113962b.doc 11/9/01 Attachment 2

 2002 City Council Budget Statement of Legislative Intent (SLI)

 Title of SLI: Implementing Resolution # 30418 relating to proposed I-71 (Homeless Initiative)

 $1.75 million for transitional housing Version #: 2 Department(s): Office of Housing (OH)

 Councilmember: Steinbrueck Staff Analyst: Ratzliff

 Date

 Total

 JC

 RC

 JD

 NL

 RM

 JN

 MP

 PS

 HW

 Yes

 No

 Statement of Legislative Intent:

 The Council authorizes the Office of Housing to expend $1.75 million ($1,071,000 in HOME funds and $679,000 in CDBG funds) to implement the transitional housing program and support services portion of the Homeless Strategic Response Program (included in Resolution # 30418 relating to the Homeless Initiative). These funds shall be allocated via a competitive process. OH shall provide a progress report on the implementation of this program no later than June 28, 2002 and follow-up report no later than December 16, 2002.

 Although no particular results can be guaranteed, the City has the following expectations for this effort: The funds allocated in addition to the operating/support funding provided by other sources would support this effort for the long term. If fully implemented, this program would provide 70 transitional housing units and related services for those accessing such units. City funds will be leveraged at least one for one by non-City funds or in-kind contributions to implement this program.

 Supporting Information (if needed): See accompanying Issue Paper and Green Sheet

 Responsible Council Committee: Housing Committee

 Date Due to Council: June 28, 2002 and December 16, 2002

 113962c.doc 11/9/01 Attachment 3

```
