

********

**Council Bill Number: 7472**
   
**Ordinance Number: 20412**
********

 An Ordinance providing for the improvement of Thirty-first Avenue South from McClellan Street to Norman Street; Norman Street from Thirty-first Avenue South to Thirtieth Avenue South; Thirtieth Avenue South from Norman Street to Dearborn Street; Dearborn Street from Thirtieth Avenue South from the south to Thirtieth Avenue South from the north; McClellan Street from Thirty-first Avenue South to Mt. Rainier Drive; Mt. Rainier Drive from McClellan Street to Hanford Street; Hanford Street from Mt. Rainier Drive to Cascade Avenue; Cascade Avenue from the center line of Hanford Street South Ninety-three (93) feet to the existing pavement; Ferris Place from Mt. Rainier Drive to Cascade Avenue; Ridgeway Place from Mt. Rainier Drive to Cascade Avenue; Irving Street, Day Street and Atlantic Street, each from Thirty-first Avenue South to Thirty-second Avenue South, and Thirty-second Avenue South from Irving Street to the south line of All Around View Addition, all in the City of Seattle, by paving the same with asphalt laid upon a proper concrete foundation, together with concrete, brick or asphalt gutters, concrete curbs with armoured concrete and granite corners, and by grading the same and by constructing wood bulkheads, except the following named streets and avenues, which shall be paved with stone blocks or other suitable material; North half of McClellan Street from Thirty-fourth Avenue South to Mt. Baker Boulevard; west half of Mt. Rainier from McClellan Street to Ridgeway Place, Hanford Street from one hundred (100) feet west of Cascade Avenue to Cascade Avenue; Thirty-second Avenue South from one hundred ninety-five (195) feet south of Atlantic Street to the south line of All Around View Addition, and the lower roadway on Thirty-second Avenue South from Day Street to Irving Street, in accordance with Resolution No. 1904 of the City Council of the City of Seattle, and providing for the payment therefor by the mode of "Payment by Bonds," as provided by the laws of the State of Washington and the Charter and Ordinances of the City of Seattle

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 15, 1909
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 22, 1909
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 22, 1909
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 1, 1909
   
   
**Index Terms:** STREET-CONSTRUCTION, PAVING, GRADING, WALLS, CONSTRUCTION, MOUNT-BAKER, RAINIER-VALLEY, LESCHI, CENTRAL-AREA

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 1904

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

