

********

**Council Bill Number: 23429**
   
**Ordinance Number: 34536**
********

 An ordinance providing for the manner of advertising and receiving bids for general bonds of the City of Seattle in the amount of Four Hundred Thousand ($4000,000) Dollars, being unsold portion of an issue in amount of One Million, Four Hundred Thousand ($1,400,000) Dollars, voted November 8, 1910, under and pursuant to Ordinance No. 25009, of said city; and in amount of One Hundred Twenty-five Thousand ($125,000) Dollars, voted March 5, 1912, under and pursuant to Ordinance No. 28799, of said city; and in the amount of Eight Hundred Twenty-nine Thousand, Five Hundred ($829,500) Dollars, voted March 2, 1915, under and pursuant to Ordinance No. 34219, of said city and in the amount of One Hundred Twenty-five Thousand ($125,000) Dollars, being a portion of an issue of bonds in the amount of Eight Hundred Thousand ($800,000) Dollars, voted March 7, 1911, under and pursuant to Ordinance No. 26069, of said city; and in the amount of Eighty Thousand ($80,000) Dollars, being a portion of an issue of bonds in amount of One Million ($1,000,000) Dollars, voted September 5, 1911, under and pursuant to Ordinance No. 27499, of said city; and in the amount of One Hundred Thousand ($100,000) Dollars, of bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 34533, of said city; and in the amount of Seventy Thousand ($70,000) Dollars, of bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 34535, of said city; and in the amount of Thirty Thousand ($30,000) Dollars, authorized by Ordinance No. 34534 of said city.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 29, 1915
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 31, 1915
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 31, 1915
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 22, 1915
   
**Committee:** Finance
   
   
**Index Terms:** BONDS, SALES

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 25009, Ord 28799, Ord 34219, Ord 26069, Ord 34533

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

