

********

**Council Bill Number: 1100**
   
**Ordinance Number: 14533**
********

 An Ordinance granting to the Grand Boulevard Improvement Co. et al, the right, privilege, and authority to improve at their own cost and expense by grading, laying curbs, gutters and cement walks in the following named streets in Buena Vista Addition and Buena Vista Addition No. 2 and replat of Pleasant Valley Addition, to-wit: The East half of 26th Avenue West, from the north line of Grand Boulevard, south to the center line of Fulton Street; 27th Avenue West, from the south line of Monterey Street to the south line of Fulton Street; 28th Avenue West, from the south line of Monterey Street to the south line produced of Block 6, Buena Vista Addition No. 2; 29th Avenue West from the north line of Grand Boulevard to the south line of Block 6 and 7, Buena Vista Addition No. 2; Grand Boulevard from the west line of 29th Avenue West, east to the east line of Block "B" Buena Vista Addition No. 2; Barrett Street, from the west line of 29th Avenue West, east to the center lien of 26th Avenue West; Fulton Street, from the east line of 28th Avenue West to the east line of 27th Avenue West; and the north half of Fulton Street from the east line of 27th Avenue West to the center line of 26th Avenue West, the west half of 27th Avenue West from the south line of Fulton Street to the north line of Ray Street; the east half of 28th Avenue West from the south line of Block 6, Buena Vista Addition No. 2, south to the north line of Ray Street.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 22, 1906
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 5, 1906
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 5, 1906
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 15, 1906
   
   
**Index Terms:** STREET-CONSTRUCTION, GRADING, PAVING, DRAINAGE, SIDEWALKS, LAWTON-PARK, MAGNOLIA, SOUTHEAST-MAGNOLIA

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

