

********

**Council Bill Number: 1532**
   
**Ordinance Number: 14839**
********

 An Ordinance repealing Ordinance No. 10448, entitled "An Ordinance providing for the improvement of Pike Street, in the City of Seattle, from a point fifty (50) feet west of the west margin of Seventh Avenue to the alley line between Eighth Avenue and Ninth Avenue, and the alley through Block one hundred seven (107), A. A. Denny's Broadway Addition to the City of Seattle, to a distance of two hundred forty (240) feet south of said Pike Street, by constructing therein a proper sewer, in accordance with Resolution No. 562 of the City Council of the City of Seattle, and providing for the payment therefor by the mode of "Immediate Payment," under the provisions of Ordinance No. 5693 of said city, approved December 6, 1899, and repealing Ordinance No. 9587 entitled "An Ordinance providing for the improvement of Pike Street, in the City of Seattle, from a point fifty (50) feet west of the west margin of Seventh Avenue to the alley line between Eighth Avenue and Ninth Avenue, and the alley through block one hundred seven (107) A. A. Denny's Broadway Addition to the City of Seattle to a distance of two hundred forty (240) feet south of said Pike Street, by constructing therein a proper sewer, in accordance with Resolution No. 562 of the City Council of the City of Seattle, and providing for the payment therefor by the mode of "Payment by Bonds," as provided by an act of the Legislature of the State of Washington, entitled "An act authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds by cities, to pay for local improvements, providing for the payment thereof, and declaring an emergency," approved March 14, 1899, and Ordinance No. 5693 of said city, approved December 6, 1899, approved April 29th, 1903."

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 26, 1906
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 29, 1906
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 29, 1906
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 19, 1906
   
   
**Index Terms:** STREET-CONSTRUCTION, SANITARY-SEWERS, STORM-SEWERS, CENTRAL-BUSINESS-DISTRICT, DOWNTOWN

**References/Related Documents:** Repealing: Ord 10448

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

