

********

**Council Bill Number: 99282**
   
**Ordinance Number: 107293**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment roll of L.I.D. No. 6687 for the improvement of S. Dakota St. from 6th Ave. S. to Airport Way S.; by paving the same with three inches of asphaltic concrete on the existing street surface; under Ord. No. 106392, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a local improvement fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 17, 1978
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 25, 1978
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 25, 1978
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 27, 1978
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** STREETS, GEORGETOWN, PAVING, ASSESSMENT, LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, FUNDS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 106392

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

