

********

**Council Bill Number: 99281**
   
**Ordinance Number: 107292**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of L.I.D. No. 6689 for the improvement of S. Webster St. from 3rd Ave. S. to 5th Ave. S.; and certain other streets and avenues; by paving the same with three inches of asphaltic concrete on the existing street surface; under Ordinance No. 106576, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a local improvement fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 17, 1978
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 25, 1978
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 25, 1978
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 27, 1978
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** WEST-SEATTLE, SOUTH-PARK, INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICT, PAVING, STREETS, ASSESSMENT, LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, FUNDS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 106576

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

