

********

**Council Bill Number: 99284**
   
**Ordinance Number: 107266**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of L.I.D. No. 6673 for the improvement of N.W. 116th St. from N.W. Carkeek Park Rd. to 6th Ave. N.W.; by constructing underground utilities lines and a residential street lighting system in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 144, Laws of 1957; and Chapter 119, Laws of 1967; under Ord. No. 105547, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a local improvement fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 3, 1978
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 10, 1978
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 10, 1978
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 27, 1978
   
**Committee:** Energy
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** NORTH-BEACH, BLUE-RIDGE, ASSESSMENT, LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, STREET-LIGHTING, UNDERGROUND-WIRING, FUNDS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 105547

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

