

********

**Council Bill Number: 99355**
   
**Ordinance Number: 107366**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6663 for the improvement of N.E. 61st St. from 60th Ave. N.E. to approximately 60 feet west of 65th Ave. N.E.; and certain other avenues; by constructing underground utilities lines and a residential street lighting system in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 144, Laws of 1957; and Chapter 119, Laws of 1967; under Ordinance No. 104961, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 15, 1978
   
**Vote:** 6-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 23, 1978
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 23, 1978
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 24, 1978
   
**Committee:** Energy
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, VIEW-RIDGE, WINDERMERE, ASSESSMENT, UNDERGROUND-WIRING, STREET-LIGHTING, FUNDS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 104961

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

