

********

**Council Bill Number: 99576**
   
**Ordinance Number: 107569**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the Assessment and Assessment Roll of L.I.D. No. 6668 for the improvement of Occidental Ave. S. from S. Washington St. to Yesler Way; by the Construction or reconstruction of the support for the concrete walk to be constructed or reconstructed in the above named street; Yesler Way, south side only from Occidental Ave. S. to approximately 111 feet east thereof; by the construction of a concrete walk; under Ord. No. 105436 as amended by Ord. No. 106645, and Levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 31, 1978
   
**Vote:** 7-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 8, 1978
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 8, 1978
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 17, 1978
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** WILLIAMS
   
   
**Index Terms:** SIDEWALKS, LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ASSESSMENT, PIONEER-SQUARE, CONSTRUCTION, FINANCE

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 105436, 106645

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

