

********

**Council Bill Number: 99599**
   
**Ordinance Number: 107557**
********

 AN ORDINANCE providing for the improvement of S. Director St. from Rainier Ave. S. to 52nd Ave. S.; by constructing a sanitary sewer system and otherwise improving improving the same; all in accordance with Res. No. 25808 of the City Council of the City of Seattle, creating a local improvement district therefor, and providing that payment for said improvement be made by special assessments upon property in said district payable by the mode of payment by Bonds.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 24, 1978
   
**Vote:** 7-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 1, 1978
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 1, 1978
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 17, 1978
   
**Committee:** Water & Waste Management
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** BONDS, RAINIER-BEACH, RAINIER-VALLEY, LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ASSESSMENT, SANITARY-SEWERS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 25808

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

