

********

**Council Bill Number: 104928**
   
**Ordinance Number: 112337**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Engineering Department; authorizing the Mayor to execute agreements for financial assistance for the 15th Avenue NW/NW Market Street UAB Signal Improvement Project; 15th Avenue NW UAB Widening, etc. Project; 1st Avenue S UAB Signal Modernization, etc. Project; E Marginal Way S UAB Signal Modernization, etc. Project; N and NW 145th Street UAB Paving, etc. Project; N 85th Street UAB Paving, etc. Project; S Graham Street Paving, etc. Project; Elliott Avenue W UAB Signal Improvement Project; N 80th Street/Wallingford Avenue N UAB Signal Improvement, etc. Project and Fuhrman Avenue E UAB Paving, etc. Project; accepting the money when received; authorizing the hiring of consultants; and making an appropriation from the Arterial City Street Fund therefor.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 1, 1985
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 9, 1985
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 10, 1985
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** ENGINEERING-DEPARTMENT, GRANTS, WASHINGTON-STATE, STREETS, PAVING, TRAFFIC-SIGNS-AND-SIGNALS, BALLARD, INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICT, GREENWOOD, GREEN-LAKE, MONTLAKE

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

