

********

**Council Bill Number: 84032**
   
**Ordinance Number: 92524**
********

 An ordinance relating to the Engineering Dept.; and providing for the widening, grading and resurfacing of 9th Ave. from Jefferson St. to Seneca St., Spring St. from 7th Ave. to 9th Ave., and James St. from a point approximately 15 feet northeasterly of 9th Ave. to approximately 15 feet northeasterly of 9th Ave. to approximately 70 feet southwesterly of 9th Ave.; and the construction of concrete sidewalks along said streets where necessary and making appropriations from the City Street Fund and the Arterial City Street Fund therefor.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 2, 1963
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 3, 1963
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 3, 1963
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 26, 1963
   
**Committee:** Finance and Streets & Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** FIRST-HILL, DOWNTOWN, WIDENING, GRADING, PAVING, SIDEWALKS, CONSTRUCTION, FINANCE, STREETS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 249535

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

