

********

**Council Bill Number: 84203**
   
**Ordinance Number: 92703**
********

 An ordinance approving and confirming the assessement and assessement roll of Local Improvement District No. 6281 for the improvement of 37th Ave. East from East Howe St. to East Newton St.; and certain other streets, avenues and alleys; by paving and otherwise improving the same; under Ordinance No. 91938 as amended by Ordinance No. 92035, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 10, 1964
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 11, 1964
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 11, 1964
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 3, 1964
   
**Committee:** Streets and Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ASSESSMENT, PAVING, SANITARY-SEWERS, STORM-SEWERS, DRAINAGE, SIDE-SEWERS, WATER-MAINS, FIRE-HYDRANTS, SIDEWALKS, GRADING, FUNDS, MADISON-PARK, CAPITOL-HILL, LESCHI, CENTRAL-AREA

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 91938

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

