

********

**Council Bill Number: 84404**
   
**Ordinance Number: 92897**
********

 An ordinance approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6288 for the improvement of South Bradford St. from Renton Ave. South to 31st Ave. South; and certain other streets and avenues; by constructing watermains together with fire hydrants and otherwise improving the same; under Ordinance No. 92364, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 11, 1964
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 11, 1964
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 11, 1964
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 4, 1964
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ASSESSMENT, FUNDS, COLUMBIA-CITY, RAINIER-VALLEY, WATER-MAINS, FIRE-HYDRANTS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 92364

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

