

********

**Council Bill Number: 84459**
   
**Ordinance Number: 92958**
********

 An ordinance relating to the improvement of 19th Ave. Southwest from Southwest Othello St. to approximately 110 feet north of Southwest Webster St. and from approximately 75 feet south of Southwest Webster St. to approximately 40 feet north of Southwest Holden St.; and certain other streets, avenues and easements, by constructing sanitary sewers and otherwise improving the same, Local Improvement District No. 6301, and appropriating money from the Sewer Fund in aid thereof as a loan.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 1, 1964
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 2, 1964
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 2, 1964
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 25, 1964
   
**Committee:** Streets and Franchise
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, SANITARY-SEWERS, WEST-SEATTLE, SOUTH-DELRIDGE, RIVERVIEW, FINANCE

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 92957

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

