

********

**Council Bill Number: 84546**
   
**Ordinance Number: 93029**
********

 An ordinance approving and confirming the assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6293 for the improvement of the alley between Block 11, Plat of Alki Point and Block 2, A.A. Smith's 2nd Addition, being the alley between 59th Ave. Southwest and 60th Ave. Southwest, from Alki Ave. Southwest to Southwest St.; and certain other alleys; by paving and otherwise improving the same; under Ordinance No. 92443 and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 6, 1964
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 7, 1964
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 7, 1964
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 29, 1964
   
**Committee:** Streets and Franchise
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ALLEYS, ALKI, WEST-SEATTLE, ASSESSMENT, FUNDS, SANITARY-SEWERS, STORM-SEWERS, SIDE-SEWERS, WATER-MAINS, FIRE-HYDRANTS, SIDEWALKS, GRADING, DRAINAGE

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 92443

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

