

********

**Council Bill Number: 84621**
   
**Ordinance Number: 93121**
********

 An ordinance providing for the laying off, opening, widening, extending and establishing of North 85th St. between Aurora Ave. North and Corliss Ave. North, and of Meridian Ave. North between North 85th St. as established herein and North 86th St.; establishing an access roadway within the S 1/2 of North 85th St. between Corliss Ave. North and a point approximately 100 feet west thereof; providing for the acquisition by condemnation of property and property rights necessary in each instance therefor, including the right to construct slopes for cuts and fills on certain abutting property; providing for the establishing of the necessary grades; and providing for payment therefor.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 3, 1964
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 5, 1964
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 4, 1964
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 27, 1964
   
**Committee:** Streets and Franchise
   
   
**Index Terms:** STREETS, NAMING, LAND-ACQUISITION, CONDEMNATION, NORTH-COLLEGE-PARK, NORTHGATE

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

