

********

**Council Bill Number: 84750**
   
**Ordinance Number: 93228**
********

 An ordinance approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6296 for the improvement of South Lucile St. from 37th Ave. South to Empire Way South; and certain other streets, avenues and an alley; by paving and otherwise improving the same, under Ordinance No. 92528 as amended by Ordinance No. 92690, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 21, 1964
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 22, 1964
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 22, 1964
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 14, 1964
   
**Committee:** Streets and Franchise
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ASSESSMENT, FUNDS, COLUMBIA-CITY, MID-BEACON-HILL, BEACON-HILL, RAINIER-VALLEY, STREETS, PAVING, SANITARY-SEWERS, STORM-SEWERS, SIDE-SEWERS, WATER-MAINS, FIRE-HYDRANTS, SIDEWALKS, GRADING, DRAINAGE

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 92690, 92528

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

