

********

**Council Bill Number: 84861**
   
**Ordinance Number: 93354**
********

 An ordinance providing for the laying off, opening, widening and establishing of Northeast 42nd St. between Roosevelt Way Northeast and 7th Ave. Northeast; Northeast 50th St. between 4th Ave. Northeast and 5th Ave. Northeast and between 7th Ave. Northeast and the alley east thereof all in conformity with existing grade; providing for the condemnation, appropriation, taking and damaging of land and other property necessary therefor; providing for the acquisition of the right to construct slopes for cuts and fills on certain abutting properties; and providing for payment thereof.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 2, 1964
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 4, 1964
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 4, 1964
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 26, 1964
   
**Committee:** Streets and Franchise
   
   
**Index Terms:** UNIVERSITY-DISTRICT, LAND-ACQUISITION, STREETS, WIDENING, ALLEYS, FREEWAYS, CONSTRUCTION, CONDEMNATION

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

