

********

**Council Bill Number: 34609**
   
**Ordinance Number: 44889**
********

 An ordinance relating to and authorizing the sale to R. C. Storrie & Co. of $625,000 Seattle Municipal Light and Power Plant and System Bonds, 1918, authorized by Ordinance No. No. 36852, as amended by Ordinance No. 38065, as amended by Ordinance No. No. 38469, as amended by Ordinance No. 40804, fixing the rate of interest thereon, the maturities, denominations, date and installment designations thereof, and repealing all ordinances and parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 26, 1923
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 27, 1923
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 28, 1923
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 23, 1923
   
**Committee:** Finance and City Utilities
   
   
**Index Terms:** ENERGY-FACILITIES, CONSTRUCTION, BONDS, SALES

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 36852, Ord 38065, Ord 38469, Ordinance No. 40804

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

