

********

**Council Bill Number: 89440**
   
**Ordinance Number: 97889**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to and regulating design, construction, use and occupancy of buildings, amending Sections 402, 1101, 3005, 3006, 4203 and Table 5-B of the Building Code (Ordinance 85500); repealing Sections 3801 to 3806 inclusive thereof and adding, in lieu of those repealed, new sections thereto designated Sections 3801 to 3806 inclusive; and further repealing Sections 4301 to 4307 inclusive and Tables No. 43-A. No. 43-B, No. 43-C, and No. 43-D thereof and adding, in lieu of those repealed, new sections thereto designated Sections 4301 to 4307 inclusive and new Tables No. 43-A, No. 43-B, No. 43-C, and No. 43-D.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 23, 1969
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 26, 1969
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 26, 1969
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 16, 1969
   
**Committee:** Public Safety
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUILDING-CODES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 85500

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

