

********

**Council Bill Number: 110150**
   
**Ordinance Number: 117160**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting electrical aerial overhang distribution easements on portions of Lot 1, King County Short Plat No. S89S0078; Block 40, Nagle's Addition to the City of Seattle and block 1 of Williams Addition to the City of Seattle; Lot 1 of King County Short Plat No. S90S343; Section 10, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, W.M.; Tract 29, Riverton Macadam Road Tracts Second Addition; Lot B, King County Boundary Line Adjustment Number S92L0123; Parcels B and C, City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 9105231; Parcel A of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 9203107; Parcel A, City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 8906957; and placing said easements under the jurisdiction of the City Light Department.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 31, 1994
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 6, 1994
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 6, 1994
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 9, 1994
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** NOLAND
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, EASEMENTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

