

********

**Council Bill Number: 110280**
   
**Ordinance Number: 117267**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting electrical overhead and underground distribution easements over portions of Lot 3, King County Short Plat No. S89S0307; Lot 8 and all of Lot 9, Block 2, Hamilton's 1st Addition; Parcels A and E of Short Plat No. 9006511 Revised, recorded in King County, Washington, under Recording No. 9204100443; Parcel A, King County Boundary Line Adjustment No. S91L0114 as recorded under King County Recording No. 9303180732; Lots 1, 2, and 3, King County Short Plat No. 688027; Tract B, King County Short Plat No. S89S0303; Lots A, B, and C, City of Tukwila Short Plat No. 90-3-SS; Lot 4, King County Short Plat No. 788028; Lot 19, Block 28, Lake Forest Park Third Addition; Lots A, B, and C, City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 9103053; Lot 3, City of SeaTac Short Plat No. SPL0008-92; Lots 1 and 2, City of Tukwila Short Plat No. L92-0049; Lot 6, Block 48, Homecroft Addition to the City of Seattle; Parcel B of City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 8803537; and placing said easements under the jurisdiction of the City Light Department.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 22, 1994
   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Harris out of Chamber)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 31, 1994
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 31, 1994
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 1, 1994
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** NOLAND
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, EASEMENTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

