

********

**Council Bill Number: 110581**
   
**Ordinance Number: 117528**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department accepting electrical overhead and underground distribution easements over portions of Lots 5 and 6, Block 1, Churchills Suburban Villa One Acre Tracts; Lot 1, Block 6, Plat of Lake Forest Park 4th Addition Division A; Lot 14, Block 2, First Addition to Adams Home Tracts; Parcel B of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 8903040, as recorded under Recording No. 8912271016, records of King County, Washington; Lot 1, Block 28, Lake Forest Park 3rd Addition; Parcel B, of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 9003436, as recorded under Recording No. 9108050157, records of King County, Washington; Lots 3 and 4, Block 4, Richmond Tracts Division No. 3; Lot 20, Block 31, Lake Forest Park 3rd Addition; Parcel B of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 9200426, as recorded under Recording No. 9207301588; Lot 38, Block 28, Lake Forest Park 3rd Addition; and placing said easements under the jurisdiction of the City Light Department.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 6, 1995
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 9, 1995
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 9, 1995
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 22, 1995
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** NOLAND
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, EASEMENTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

