

********

**Council Bill Number: 110658**
   
**Ordinance Number: 117602**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department accepting electrical overhead and underground distribution easements over portions of Lot 4, Block 11, Northend Country Estates; Lot 3, City of Tukwila Short Plat 91-03-SS, as recorded under King County Recording Number 9107031132; Yesler Terrace Addition; Lot 1, King County Short Plat No. 687041, as recorded under King County Recording No. 8908291280; Tracts 8 and 9, Barto's Acre Tracts; Lot 1, Block 10, Gregory Heights, Division No. 1; Tract 7, Clinkingbeards One Fourth Acre Tracts; Lot A of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 9400927, as recorded under Recording No. 9408100465; Lot 10, Block 4, Northend Country Estates; Lots 7 and 14, Block 4, Second Addition to Adam's Home Tracts; Lot 1, Dixon's Lake Park Addition; Lot 1, Block 1, Bodin's Addition to the City of Seattle; Lot 7, Block 21, Homecroft Addition; Lot 6, Block 7, Lago Vista; Lot 2, King County Short Plat No. S90S0171, as recorded under King County Recording No. 9311029002; and placing said easements under the jurisdiction of the City Light Department.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 17, 1995
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 25, 1995
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 25, 1995
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 10, 1995
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** NOLAND
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, EASEMENTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

