

********

**Council Bill Number: 110788**
   
**Ordinance Number: 117867**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Chapters 23.76 and 23.84 of the Seattle Municipal Code in response to requirements of Initiative 164, Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995, and setting a contingent effective date.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 6, 1995
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 6, 1995
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 6, 1995
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** This ordinance did not take effect due to the defeat of Referendum 48.

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 10, 1995
   
**Committee:** Housing, Community Development and Urban Environment
   
**Sponsor:** HARRIS
   
   
**Index Terms:** ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, LAND-USE-CODE, DEPARTMENT-OF-CONSTRUCTION-AND-LAND-USE, HEARING-EXAMINER

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Chapters 23.76 and 23.84 of the Seattle Municipal Code in response to requirements of Initiative 164, Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995, and setting a contingent effective date.

 WHEREAS, the Washington State Legislature enacted Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995, which came to the Legislature as Initiative 164, to take effect on July 22, 1995; but the effective date of Chapter 98 was stayed by the submittal to the Secretary of State of sufficient signatures to qualify Referendum 48 for the ballot on November 7, 1995; and Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995 now will take effect December 7, 1995, unless Referendum 48 is defeated at the polls on November 7, 1995; and

 WHEREAS, Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995 prohibits some governmental actions that limit the use or development of private property, unless the government complies with Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle limits the use or development of private property to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and

 WHEREAS, the public peace, health, safety, and welfare, and the economic health of the community, and the fiscal integrity of the City of Seattle would be endangered if the City of Seattle were unable to limit the use or development of private property for a period of time after Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995 takes effect; and

 WHEREAS, Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995 requires the City to pay an owner of land "full compensation of reduction in value" caused by "restraints of land use" that are determined to be statutory takings, but Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995 does not provide a standard for determining statutory takings that will enable City decision-makers to know beforehand when the statutory standard will be violated; and

 WHEREAS, it is important for the City to have a process for determining whether a statutory taking will occur before a restraint of land use is imposed; and

 WHEREAS, this ordinance shall take effect only if Referendum 48 passes, but shall not take effect if Referendum 48 is defeated at the polls on November 7, 1995; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subsection A of Section 23.76.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, of which Exhibit 23.76.004A was last amended by Ordinance 117598, is amended as follows:

 23.76.004 Land use decision framework.

 A. Land use decisions are classified into five (5) categories based on the amount of discretion and level of impact associated with each decision. Procedures for the five (5) different categories are distinguished according to who makes the decision, the type and amount of public notice required, and whether appeal opportunities are provided. Land use decisions are categorized by type in Exhibit 23.76.004 A.

 Exhibit 23.76.004 A

 LAND USE DECISION FRAMEWORK

 DIRECTOR'S DECISIONS REQUIRING MASTER USE PERMITS

 TYPE I

 (Nonappealable)

 - Uses permitted outright

 - Temporary uses, four weeks or less

 - Certain street uses

 - Lot boundary adjustments

 - Greenbelt preserve designations

 - Modification of features bonused under Title 24

 - Declarations of significance (EIS required)

 - Temporary uses, twelve months or less, for relocation of police and fire protection

 - Exemptions from right-of-way improvement requirements

 - Special accommodation

 - Reasonable accommodation

 - Minor amendment to a Major Phased Development Permit

 TYPE II (Appealable to Hearing Examiner *) - Temporary uses, more than four weeks - Certain street uses - Variances - Administrative conditional uses - Shoreline decisions (*Appealable to Shorelines Hearing Board along with all related environmental appeals) - Short subdivisions - Special exceptions - Design review - Northgate General Development Plan

 - The following environmental determinations:

 1. Declaration of nonsignificance (EIS not required)

 2. Determination of final EIS adequacy

 - Major Phased Development

 - Determination of adequacy of an EIA for a proposed restraint on private property as required by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995.

 - Determination, based on an EIA for a Type II MUP, that a proposed restraint on private property has the least possible impact on private property as required by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995.

 TYPE III (Appealable to Council) - The decision to approve, condition or deny a project based on the SEPA Policies pursuant to SMC 25.05.660, provided that for projects subject to design review, a decision to approve, condition or deny pursuant to the SEPA Height, Bulk and Scale policy shall be a Type II decision. - Determination, based on an EIA for a Type III MUP, that a proposed restraint on private property has the least possible impact on private property as required by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995.

 COUNCIL LAND USE DECISIONS TYPE IV (Quasi-Judicial) - Subdivisions (Preliminary Plats) - Land use and zoning map amendments (Rezones) - Public project approvals - Major institution master plans - Council conditional use - Downtown planned community developments - Planned Unit Developments - Determination, based on an EIA for a Type IV land use decision, that a proposed restraint on private property has the least possible impact on private property as required by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995. TYPE V (Legislative) - Land Use and Zoning Code text amendments - Rezones to implement new City Policies - Concept approval for City facilities - Major institution designations

Section 2. Subsection C of Section 23.76.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which subsection was last amended by Ordinance 117598, and subsection D of Section 23.76.006, which subsection was last amended by Ordinance 116909, are amended as follows:

 23.76.006 Master Use Permits Required.

 C. The following are Type II decisions, which are subject to appeal to the Hearing Examiner (except shoreline decisions and related environmental determinations which are appealable to the Shorelines Hearing Board):

 1. Establishment or change of use for temporary uses more than four (4) weeks not otherwise permitted in the zone or not meeting development standards, and temporary relocation of police and fire stations for twelve (12) months or less;

 2. Short subdivisions;

 3. Variances, provided that variances sought as part of a Type IV decision may be granted by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036 ;

 4. Special exceptions, provided that special exceptions sought as part of a Type IV decision may be granted by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036 ;

 5. Design review;

 6. The following street use decisions:

 a. Sidewalk cafes,

 b. Structural building overhangs,

 c. Areaways;

 7. Administrative conditional uses, provided administrative conditional uses sought as part of a Type IV decision may be approved by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036 ;

 8. The following shoreline decisions (supplemental procedures for shoreline decisions are established in Chapter 23.60 ):

 a. Shoreline substantial development permits,

 b. Shoreline variances,

 c. Shoreline conditional uses;

 9. The following environmental decisions for Master Use Permits and for building, demolition, grading and other construction permits (supplemental procedures for environmental review are established in SMC Chapter 25.05 , SEPA Policies and Procedures):

 a. Declarations of Nonsignificance (DNS's), including mitigated DNS's,

 b. Determination that a final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is adequate;

 10. Northgate General Development Plan;

 11. Major Phased Developments ~~(.~~;

12. The adequacy of any Economic Impact Analysis (EIA) required by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995;

13. The determination, based on an EIA for a Type II MUP, that a proposed restraint has the least possible impact on private property, as required by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995.

 D. The following ~~(is a~~are Type III decision s, which ~~(is~~are subject to appeal to the Hearing Examiner and may be further appealed to the Council:

1. The decision to approve, condition or deny any Master Use Permit (other than for shoreline decisions) based on the City's SEPA policies pursuant to SMC Section 25.05.660 ; provided, that for projects subject to design review a decision to approve, condition or deny pursuant to the SEPA Height, Bulk and Scale policy, SMC Section 25.05.675 G, shall be a Type II decision.

2. The determination, based on an EIA for a Type III MUP, that a proposed restraint has the least possible impact on private property as required by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995.

Section 3. A new Section 23.76.013 is hereby added to the Seattle Municipal Code, as follows:

23.76.013 Notice of Availability of Economic Impact Analysis.  If an Economic Impact Analysis (EIA) is required by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995, notice of the availability of the EIA shall be provided in the general mailed release at least thirty (30) days prior to publication of the Director's decision, or prior to publication of the Director's Report or Recommendation for Council land use decisions.

 Section 4. Subsection C of Section 23.76.022 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which subsection was last amended by Ordinance 117263, is amended as follows:

 23.76.022 Administrative appeals.

 C. Hearing Examiner Appeal Procedures.

 1. Consolidated Appeals. All appeals of Master Use Permit decisions other than shoreline decisions, shall be considered together in a consolidated hearing before the Hearing Examiner.

 2. Standing. Appeals of Master Use Permit decisions may be initiated by any person significantly affected by or interested in the permit ~~(.)~~, provided that when an EIA has been prepared, a person with standing under Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995 may appeal the adequacy of the Economic Impact Analysis (EIA), or the determination as required by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995 that a proposed restraint of land use has the least possible impact on private property.

 3. Filing of Appeals.

 a. Appeals shall be filed with the Hearing Examiner by five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) of the fifteenth calendar day following publication of notice of the decision; provided, that when a fifteen (15) day DNS comment period is required pursuant to SMC Chapter 25.05 , appeals may be filed up to fifteen (15) days following the comment period. When the last day of the appeal period so computed is a Saturday, Sunday, or federal or City holiday, the period shall run until five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) on the next business day. The appeal shall be in writing and shall clearly identify each component of a Master Use Permit being appealed. The appeal shall be accompanied by payment of the filing fee as set forth in the SMC Section 3.02.125 , Hearing Examiner filing fees. Specific objections to the Director's decision and the relief sought shall be stated in the written appeal.

 b. In form and content, the appeal shall conform with the rules of the Hearing Examiner.

 4. Pre-hearing Conference. At the Hearing Examiner's initiative, or at the request of any party of record, the Hearing Examiner may have a conference prior to the hearing in order to entertain pre-hearing motions, clarify issues, or consider other relevant matters.

 5. Notice of Hearing. Notice of the hearing on the appeal shall be mailed by the Director at least twenty (20) days prior to the scheduled hearing date to parties of record and those requesting notice. Notice shall also be included in the next general mailed release.

 6. Scope of Review. Appeals shall be considered de novo. The Hearing Examiner shall entertain issues cited in the appeal which relate to compliance with the procedures for Type II and III decisions as required in this chapter, compliance with substantive criteria, determinations of nonsignificance (DNS's), adequacy of an EIS upon which the decision was made, or failure to properly approve, condition or deny a permit based on disclosed adverse environmental impacts.

 7. Standard of Review. The Director's decisions made on a Master Use Permit shall be given substantial weight, except for determinations on variances, conditional uses, and special exceptions, which shall be given no deference.

 8. The Record. The record shall be established at the hearing before the Hearing Examiner. The Hearing Examiner shall either close the record after the hearing or leave it open to a specified date for additional testimony, written argument or exhibits.

 9. Postponement or Continuance of Hearing. The Hearing Examiner shall not grant requests for postponement or continuance of an appeal hearing to allow an applicant to proceed with an alternative development proposal under separate application, unless all parties to the appeal agree in writing to such postponement or continuance.

 10. Hearing Examiner's Decision. The Hearing Examiner shall issue a written decision within fifteen (15) days after closing the record. The Hearing Examiner may affirm, reverse, remand or modify the Director's decision. Written findings and conclusions supporting the Hearing Examiner's decision shall be made. The Director and all parties of record shall be bound by the terms and conditions of the Hearing Examiner's decision.

 11. Notice of Hearing Examiner Decision. The Hearing Examiner's decision shall be mailed by the Hearing Examiner on the day the decision is issued to the parties of record and to all those requesting notice. If environmental issues were raised in the appeal, the decision shall also be filed with the SEPA Public Information Center. The decision shall contain information regarding Council appeal procedures, if any, and regarding judicial review.

 12. Appeal of Hearing Examiner's Decision. The Hearing Examiner's decision shall be final and conclusive unless:

 a. The Hearing Examiner's decision specifically states that the Hearing Examiner retains jurisdiction; or

 b. The decision is appealed to the Council pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code Section 23.76.024; or

 c. Within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of issuance of the decision a party of record makes application to King County Superior Court for a writ of review, provided that, if an appeal pursuant to Section 23.76.024 is submitted to the Council, the fifteen (15) day period for requesting judicial review of the Hearing Examiner's decision shall not begin until the Council issues its final decision on the appeal ~~.~~ ; or  d. An owner of private property, as private property is defined by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995, requests a Determination of Statutory Taking (DST) pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code Section 23.76.025, in which case the Hearing Examiner's decision which is the basis for the alleged statutory taking shall not be final and the appeal period stated in subsection 12 c of this Section shall not commence until either the date on which the Hearing Examiner issues a decision that no statutory taking will occur, or the date on which, after the Hearing Examiner determines that a statutory taking will occur, the City issues a decision either to pay compensation or not impose the restraint pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code subsection 23.76.025 E.

Section 5. A new Section 23.76.025 is hereby added to Chapter 23.76 of the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

23.76.025 Determination of Statutory Taking.  A. Definitions.

 When a term used in this section is defined by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995, it shall have the meaning set forth in that law. When a term used in this section is used in Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995 but is not defined by that law, it shall be interpreted to have the same meaning in this section as it is interpreted by the appellate courts to have in Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995.

 B. Standing.

 1. A Determination of Statutory Taking (DST) may be requested only by an owner of private property whose property is the subject of a Type II or Type III Master Use Permit (MUP) application or a Type IV Council land use decision.

 2. Once a DST has been requested by an owner of the property, DCLU shall be a party to the DST proceedings and the following persons shall have standing to participate in the DST proceedings:

 a. Any party to an appeal of the MUP decision that is the subject of the DST; or

 b. Any party to an appeal of the environmental determination for a Type IV Council land use decision that is the subject of the DST, or any person who requests further consideration of the Hearing Examiner's recommendation regarding the Type IV Council land use decision, or any person who is provided written notice of the Hearing Examiner's recommendation regarding the Type IV Council land use decision and who responds in writing to a request for further consideration within ten (10) days of the date a copy of the request for further consideration is mailed to such person; or

 c. Any property owner whose property interests would be directly and adversely affected by a decision not to impose the restraint of land use that is asserted to be a statutory taking.

 C. Request for Determination of Statutory Taking.

 1. Any owner of private property who asserts that a Type II or Type III Master Use Permit (MUP) decision or a Type IV Council land use decision will effect a statutory taking under Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995, shall request a Determination of Statutory Taking (DST) from the Hearing Examiner.

 2. The Request for DST shall be in writing and shall state the factual and legal basis for the owner's assertion that the MUP decision or Type IV Council land use decision will effect a statutory taking under Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995, and shall state the amount the owner asserts will be owed as compensation for reduction in value pursuant to Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995.

 3. The Request shall be filed with the Hearing Examiner by five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) of the fourteenth (14th) calendar day following:

 a. Publication of notice of the Type II or Type III MUP decision; provided, that when a fifteen (15) day DNS comment period is required pursuant to SMC Chapter 25.05 , a Request may be filed up to fourteen (14) calendar days following the comment period; or

 b. The date of a decision by the Hearing Examiner or Council on an appeal of a Type II or Type III MUP, provided that a Request for DST filed after a decision by the Hearing Examiner or Council on appeal may only assert a statutory taking as a result of such additional restraints of land use as are imposed on appeal by the Hearing Examiner or Council and not as a result of restraints of land use imposed by the Director's original MUP decision; or

 c. For Type IV Council land use decisions, filing of the Council decision with the City Clerk.

 4. When the last day of the period so computed is a Saturday, Sunday, or federal or City holiday, the period shall run until five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) on the next business day. The Request shall be accompanied by payment of a filing fee for the DST, which shall be the same as for Master Use Permits, as set forth in the SMC Section 3.02.125 , Hearing Examiner filing fees.

 D. Administrative Relief.

 1. Any owner requesting a DST shall also apply for and pursue any administrative remedy of the MUP decision or Type IV Council land use decision, such as a variance, that could provide relief from the alleged statutory taking or lessen the reduction in value that would result from a statutory taking. The Hearing Examiner shall not make a DST unless all such administrative remedies are exhausted, unless the owner instead demonstrates that pursuit of such administrative remedies would be futile or DCLU agrees in writing that no appropriate administrative remedy exists.

 2. When an owner requests a DST, the decision which is the basis for the alleged statutory taking shall not be final for any purpose until either the Hearing Examiner determines that no statutory taking will occur; or , the Hearing Examiner determines that a statutory taking will occur, the Hearing Examiner determines the amount of compensation that would be owed, and the City decides whether to pay compensation or not impose the restraint of land use pursuant to subsection 4 (2) of Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995.

 3. When an owner requests a DST, the Hearing Examiner shall conduct a hearing to determine whether a statutory taking will occur as a result of the Type II or Type III MUP decision or Type IV Council land use decision. Such hearing shall be held as soon as practicable after the Hearing Examiner's decision on a Type II MUP and after the Council decision on a Type III MUP or Type IV Council land use decision. If the Hearing Examiner determines that a statutory taking will occur, the Hearing Examiner shall conduct a second phase of the hearing to determine the amount of compensation for reduction in value that will be paid to the owner if the City chooses to impose the restraint of land use that is the basis for the statutory taking. At the second phase of the hearing the Hearing Examiner, pursuant to section 6 of Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995, also shall determine how much the owner paid for studies, maps, plans, or reports used in the decision to consider restricting the use of the owner's property for public use. The Hearing Examiner shall schedule the second phase of the hearing as soon as practicable after allowing the parties reasonable time to obtain appraisals and otherwise prepare for the second phase.

 E. Decision to Pay or Not Pay Compensation.

 1. Following a determination by the Hearing Examiner that a statutory taking will occur if the restraint of land use is imposed, and following the Hearing Examiner's determination of the amount of compensation that would be owed, the decision whether to impose the restraint of land use and pay the compensation or to not impose the restraint of land use shall be made as follows:

 a. When compensation would be ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or less per Master Use Permit or Type IV Council land use decision, the Director, in consultation with the Law Department and the Office of Management and Planning, shall decide whether to impose the restraint of land use and pay compensation or to recommend to the Council that the restraint not be imposed; or

 b. When compensation would be greater than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per Master Use Permit or Type IV Council land use decision, the Director in consultation with the Law Department and the Office of Management and Planning, shall make a recommendation to the Council whether to impose the restraint of land use and pay compensation or to not impose the restraint of land use.

 2. Whenever the Director makes a recommendation to the Council the Director shall mail a copy of the recommendation to each person who participated in the DST hearing before the Hearing Examiner. The Council, before making a decision whether to impose the restraint of land use and pay compensation or to not impose the restraint, shall invite comment by interested persons, and all persons providing such comment shall be mailed a copy of the Council's decision. This decision shall be made as a matter of legislative policy and is not a quasi-judicial decision.

 F. Judicial review.

 1. The decision of the Hearing Examiner about whether a restraint of land use is a statutory taking , about the amount of compensation owed for the statutory taking, and about the amount owed pursuant to section 6 of Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995 for studies, maps, plans, or reports, shall be final and conclusive unless the owner who has requested the DST or the Director seeks judicial review of the decision by making application to King County Superior Court for a writ of review within 14 calendar days of the date on which either:

 a. the Director mails his or her decision to pay compensation of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or less; or instead

 b. the Council, after receiving a recommendation from the Director, mails its decision either to impose the restraint of land use and pay compensation or to not impose the restraint.

 2. A decision of the Council, as a matter of legislative policy, to not impose a restraint of land use shall be final and conclusive unless a property owner whose property interests would be directly and adversely affected by the decision files an appropriate legal action in King County Superior Court within fourteen (14) days of the date the Council mails its decision not to impose the restraint of land use.

 G. Payment.

 When the Hearing Examiner determines that a Type II or Type III MUP decision or Type IV Council land use decision will effect a statutory taking and either the Director or the Council decides to impose the restraint of land use and pay compensation, the amount owed for the statutory taking, along with the amount determined to be owed pursuant to section 6 of Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995 for studies, maps, plans, or reports, shall be paid within three months of the date of such decision, except that if judicial review is timely sought under subsection F, the amount owed shall be paid within three months of the date on which such appeals and any subsequent remands are finally concluded.

Section 6. Subsection A of Section 23.76.036 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which subsection was last amended by Ordinance 117570, is amended as follows:

 23.76.036 Council decisions required.

 A. The Council shall make the following Type IV land use decisions along with any associated variances, special exceptions and administrative conditional uses:

 1. Subdivision preliminary plats, including replats requiring subdivision approval (supplemental procedures for preliminary plats are established in SMC Chapter 23.22 );

 2. Amendments to the Official Land Use Map, including changes in overlay districts and shoreline environment redesignations, except those initiated by the City to implement new land use policies adopted by ordinance, and except boundary adjustments caused by the acquisition, merger or consolidation of two (2) major institutions pursuant to Section 23.69.023 ;

 3. Public projects proposed by applicants other than The City of Seattle that require Council approval;

 4. Major Institution master plans (supplemental procedures for master plans are established in SMC Chapter 23.69);

 5. Council conditional uses; ~~(and~~

 6. Downtown planned community developments~~(.)~~; and

7. The determination, based on an EIA for a Type IV Council land use decision, that a proposed restraint of land use has the least possible impact on private property as required by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995.

Section 7. Section 23.76.50 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 112522, is amended as follows:

 23.76.050 Report of the Director.

 A. The Director shall prepare a written report on applications for Type IV and V decisions and any associated variances, special exceptions and administrative conditional uses, provided that in the case of a text amendment sponsored by a member of the City Council, the Director shall prepare a written report only if such report is requested by a member of the City Council.

 The report shall include:

 1. The written recommendations or comments of any affected City departments and other governmental agencies having an interest in the application;

 2. Responses to written comments submitted by interested citizens in response to any notice of application;

 3. An evaluation of the proposal based on the standards and criteria for the approval sought and consistency with the applicable goals and objectives of Seattle's land use policies as referenced in SMC Chapter 23.16 , the City's SEPA policies, as referenced in SMC 25.05.660, and any other applicable official City policies;

 4. All environmental documentation, including any checklist, EIS or DNS;

 5. The Director's recommendation to approve, approve with conditions, or deny a proposal ~~.~~ ;

6. An Economic Impact Analysis (EIA), if required by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995.

 B. A DNS or the Director's determination that an EIS is adequate, or that an EIA is adequate, shall be subject to appeal pursuant to the procedures in subsection C of Section 23.76.022 .

 C. For Type IV decisions, the Director's report shall be submitted to the Hearing Examiner and made available for public inspection at least thirty (30) days prior to the Hearing Examiner's public hearing described in Section 23.76.052 .

 D. For Type V decisions, the Director's report shall be submitted to the Council and shall be available to the public at least fifteen (15) days before the Council hearing described in Section 23.76.062.

 Section 8. Section 23.76.52 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 112522, is amended as follows:

23.76.052 Hearing Examiner hearing and recommendation.

 A. General - Consolidation With Environmental Appeal and Appeal of the Adequacy of Economic Impact Analysis (EIA). The Hearing Examiner shall conduct a public hearing, which shall constitute a hearing by the Council, on all applications for Type IV (quasi-judicial) Council land use decisions. At the same hearing, the Hearing Examiner shall also hear any appeals of the Director's environmental determination, and of the adequacy of the EIA, if one has been prepared.

 B. Notice of Hearing.

 1. The Director shall give notice of the Hearing Examiner's hearing, the Director's environmental determination, and of the availability of the Director's report at least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing by:

 a. General mailed release;

 b. Publication in the City official newspaper;

 c. Submission of the general mailed release to at least one (1) community newspaper in the area affected by the proposal;

 d. At least four (4) placards posted at places visible to the public, including street intersections, within three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the project. For hearings on Major Institution Master Plans, a minimum of ten (10) placards shall be posted;

 e. Mailed notice;

 f. Posting in the Department; and

 2. DNSs shall also be filed with the SEPA Public Information Center. If the Director's decision includes a mitigated DNS or other DNS requiring a fifteen (15) day comment period pursuant to SMC Section 25.05.340 , the notice of DNS shall include notice of the comment period. The Director shall distribute copies of such DNSs as required by SMC Section 25.05.340 .

 3. For preliminary plats, the Director shall provide additional notice as follows:

 a. If the owner of the property to be subdivided owns another parcel or parcels of real property lying adjacent to the property to be subdivided, mailed notice shall be provided to all owners of real property located within three hundred feet (300') of any portion of the boundaries of the adjacently located parcel(s) owned by the subdivider.

 b. Notice shall be published not less than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the county and a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the real property proposed to be subdivided is located; and

 c. The applicant and each of the recipients of the preliminary plat listed in Section 23.22.024 shall be notified.

 4. The notice shall state the type of land use decision under consideration, a description sufficient to locate the subject property, and the Director's recommendation and environmental determination. The notice shall also state that the environmental determination ~~is~~ and the adequacy of the EIA, if one has been prepared, are subject to appeal and shall describe the appeal procedure.

 C. Appeal of Environmental Determination. Any person significantly interested in or affected by the Type IV decision under consideration may appeal the Director's environmental determination subject to the following provisions:

 1. Filing of Appeals. Appeals shall be submitted in writing to the Hearing Examiner by five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) of the fifteenth calendar day following publication of notice of the determination, provided that when a fifteen (15) day DNS comment period is required pursuant to SMC Section 25.05.340 , appeals may be filed up to fifteen (15) days following the comment period. When the last day of the appeal period so computed is a Saturday, Sunday, or federal or City holiday, the period shall run until five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) on the next business day. The appeal shall be in writing and shall state specific objections to the environmental determination and the relief sought. The appeal shall be accompanied by payment of the filing fee as set forth in the Seattle Municipal Code Section 3.02.125, Hearing examiner filing fees. In form and content, the appeal shall conform with the rules of the Hearing Examiner.

 2. Pre-Hearing Conference. At the Hearing Examiner's initiative, or at the request of any party of record, the Hearing Examiner may have a conference prior to the hearing in order to entertain and act on motions, clarify issues, or consider other relevant matters.

 3. Notice of Appeal. Notice of filing of the appeal and of the date of the consolidated hearing on the appeal and the Type IV land use decision recommendation shall be promptly mailed by the Hearing Examiner to parties of record and those requesting notice.

 4. Scope of Review. Appeals shall be considered de novo. The Hearing Examiner shall entertain only those issues cited in the written appeal which relate to compliance with the procedures for Type IV decisions as required in this chapter and the adequacy of the environmental documentation upon which the determination was made.

 5. Standard of Review. The Director's environmental determination shall be given substantial weight.

D. Appeal of EIA Adequacy. Any person with standing under Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995 may appeal the adequacy of an EIA, when an EIA has been prepared, according to the procedures established in C1, above. The appeal shall state specific objections to the EIA and the relief sought.

~~D~~E. Conduct of Hearing. The Hearing Examiner at the public hearing will accept evidence and comments regarding:

 1. The Director's report, including an evaluation of the project based on applicable City ordinances and polices and the Director's recommendation to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application; and

 2. Specific issues related to the Director's environmental determination, if appealed , and the adequacy of the EIA, if one has been prepared and its adequacy appealed.

~~E~~F. The Record. The record shall be established at the hearing before the Hearing Examiner. The Hearing Examiner shall either close the record after the hearing or leave it open to a specified date for additional testimony, written argument, or exhibits.

~~F~~G. Written Comments. Written comments on the application for a Type IV land use decision and the Director's report and recommendation may be sent to the Department or the Hearing Examiner. Only those received prior to the conclusion of the hearing shall be considered by the Hearing Examiner.

~~G~~H. Recommendation. From the information gained at the hearing, from timely written comments submitted to the Department or the Hearing Examiner, and from the report and recommendation of the Director, the Hearing Examiner shall submit a recommendation to the Council by filing it together with the record with the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days after the close of the hearing record, provided, that the Hearing Examiner shall submit a recommendation on an application for subdivision preliminary plat approval within ten (10) days from the close of the record and, provided further, that the Hearing Examiner's report on a major Institution Master Plan shall be submitted within thirty (30) days. The recommendation to approve, approve with conditions, or deny an application shall be based on the written findings and conclusions.

~~H~~I . Environmental and Economic Impact Analysis (EIA) Appeal Decision. If the Director's environmental or EIA adequacy determination is appealed, the Hearing Examiner shall affirm, reverse, remand or modify the Director's determination that an EIS is not required (DNS) or that an EIS is adequate, or that an EIA is adequate, based on written findings and conclusions. The Director shall be bound by the terms and conditions of the Hearing Examiner's decision. If the environmental determination or EIA is remanded, the Hearing Examiner shall also remand the Director's recommendation for reconsideration. The Hearing Examiner's decision on a DNS or EIS or EIA adequacy appeal shall not be subject to Council appeal. The time period for requesting judicial review of the environmental or EIA determination shall not commence until the Council has completed action on the Type IV decision for which the DNS ,~~or~~EIS, or EIA was issued.

~~I~~J. Distribution of Decision and Recommendation. On the same date that the Hearing Examiner files a recommendation with the City Clerk, copies of the recommendation and environmental appeal decision, if any, shall be mailed by the Hearing Examiner to the applicant, to the Director, to all persons testifying or submitting information at the hearing, and to all those who request a copy in a timely manner. Notice of the Hearing Examiner's recommendation to the Council shall include instructions for requesting the Council to further consider the recommendation on the Type IV decision.

~~(J~~K . File to Council. The City Clerk shall file the recommendation and record with the original application and transmit the same to the Council.

 Section 9. Section 23.84.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended by adding a new subsection, "Economic Impact Analysis," to be inserted alphabetically as follows:

 23.84.010 "E".

"Economic Impact Analysis" (EIA) means a statement containing a full analysis of the total economic impact on private property of a proposed restraint of land use, as required by Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995.

 Section 10. Severability. The several provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable and the invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section, subsection, or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance or the validity of its application to other persons or circumstance.

 Section 11. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020; except that if Referendum 48, formerly known as Initiative 164 (Chapter 98 of the Laws of 1995), is defeated at the ballot on November 7, 1995 and does not take effect in December of 1995, then this ordinance shall not take effect and shall be null and void.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ____________, 1995, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ____ day of _____________, 1995.

 _____________________________

 Presidentof the City Council

 mmh 164ordff 11/29/9510:30 AM

```
