

********

**Council Bill Number: 110958**
   
**Ordinance Number: 117906**
********

 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan by adding a Human Development Element and amending the Economic Development and Transportation Elements, as part of the City's annual Plan amendment for 1995.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 27, 1995
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 29, 1995
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 29, 1995
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 16, 1995
   
**Committee:** Committee of Whole
   
**Sponsor:** STREET
   
   
**Index Terms:** COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 117221, 117735

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan by adding a Human Development Element and amending the Economic Development and Transportation Elements, as part of the City's annual Plan amendment for 1995.

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Council Resolution 29037 establishing procedures for amendment of the Comprehensive Plan, a number of proposals for Plan amendments were made, both from within the City and from the public; and

 WHEREAS, development of a new Human Development Element resulted from the Framework Policies adopted by Resolution 28535 calling for improved partnerships with other governments, the Seattle School District, non-profit service providers, community groups and others in providing human services, public safety, education and cultural resources and from the Comprehensive Plan Work Program Resolution 28969 passed by the Council on August 1, 1994 calling for development of a new Human Development Element to augment the Plan; and

 WHEREAS, reclassifications to/from principal arterials and major truck streets to implement the Plan were called for in the Comprehensive Plan Work Program Resolution 28969; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Council Resolution 29037 and consistent with the Plan and other Council actions, the Council determined that the following amendments would be considered for possible adoption in 1995: a new Human Development Element, street classification changes, and an amendment proposed by the Seattle Community Council Federation regarding measurement of the provision and performance of non-motorized travel facilities; and

 WHEREAS, the Council finds that the proposed amendments are consistent with the Growth Management Act, and will protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public; NOW THEREFORE

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Seattle Comprehensive Plan, as adopted by Ordinance 117221 and last amended by Ordinance 117735, is hereby amended as follows:

 A. A Human Development Element is hereby added to the Comprehensive Plan and amendments are made to the Economic Development Element as shown in Attachment 1 to this ordinance.

 B. Policy T49.5 in the Transportation Element is added as shown in Attachment 2 to this ordinance.

 C. Transportation Element Figures 1 and 6 and policy T15 in the Transportation Element are amended as shown in Attachment 3 to this ordinance.

 D. Policy L127 in the Land Use Element, added by Ordinance 117735 on July 31, 1995, is renumbered to L126.5, and the statement (New policy added 7/95) is added to the end of the policy. Policies L128 to L163 are renumbered L127 to L162.

 E. Policy C6 in the Land Use Element, added by Ordinance 117735 on July 31, 1995, in renumbered to C5.5, and the statement (New policy added 7/95) is added to the end of the policy.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the __ day of _______, 1995, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ____ day of ____________, 1995. _________________________________________ President ___________ of the City Council

 TAC:tac September 21, 1995 Ordamend.doc (Ver. 3)

 ATTACHMENT 1

 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT ELEMENT AND AMENDMENTS TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ELEMENT

 The entire Human Development Element is new and will be added to the end of the Comprehensive Plan, following the Neighborhood Planning Element.

 Additions to the Economic Development Element are shown in underline, deletions are shown in strike-through.

 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT ELEMENT

 (Element adopted 11/95)

 Table of Contents

 A. COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION 3

 B. DIVERSITY 4

 C. VULNERABLE POPULATIONS 5

 D. EDUCATION AND EMPLOYABILITY 6

 E. HEALTH 7

 F. COMMUNITY SAFETY 8

 G. SERVICE DELIVERY 10

 A. COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION

 Goals:

 G1. Make Seattle a place where people are involved in community and neighborhood life; where they help each other and contribute to the vitality of the city.

 Discussion: Healthy and safe communities do not just happen -- they are the product of people working together and investing time, energy and commitment. City government has an important role to play, but institutions alone cannot create or sustain community. By their involvement in civic and neighborhood activities, people see the impact of their own actions, recognize the difference they make, and can become acquainted with the people around them. This reinforces the understanding that personal responsibility is crucial to development of a vibrant, growing community.

 Policies:

 HD1 Work toward achieving a sense of belonging among all Seattle residents.

 a. Promote opportunities that bring people together to help them build

 connections to each other, their neighbors and the greater community.

 b. Enhance opportunities for intergenerational activities.

 c. Strive to reach people in new ways to encourage broad participation in

 neighborhood and community activities and events.

 HD2 Promote volunteerism and community service.

 a. Enhance people's access to information about opportunities to contribute their time, energy or resources.

 b. Encourage young people of all ages to be involved in creating and participating in community service projects.

 HD3 Strengthen efforts to involve people in the planning and decision-making that affect their lives, with particular emphasis on the neighborhood planning process in urban villages areas.

 HD4 Encourage other governments, schools, and institutions to provide opportunities for people's participation in discussions that shape decisions about their neighborhoods and communities.

 HD5 Encourage people to take responsibility for their lives and to nurture their families, children and circle of friends.

 HD6 Encourage people to be informed and involved, so they can make educated choices about their lives and assist in finding community solutions to issues and problems and responses to opportunities.

 B. DIVERSITY

 Goals:

 G2. Promote respect and appreciation for diversity, including economic, racial, cultural and individual differences.

 G3. Provide equal opportunity and fair access to services.

 Discussion: Seattle benefits from a diverse citizenry. We can capitalize on the varied heritage, talents and perspectives of our members to build a stronger community. The City recognizes that every human being should have the opportunity to succeed, to contribute and to be treated with dignity.

 Policies:

 HD7 Encourage community efforts that work toward integration in Seattle to achieve a diversity of ages, incomes, household types and sizes, and cultural backgrounds in all neighborhoods.

 HD8 In addition to upholding federal, state and local laws against discrimination and bias crimes, work to promote human rights and mutual respect and to end intolerance and divisiveness. Reach out and bring people together in ways that build bridges between individuals and between groups.

 HD9 Celebrate diversity through community activities and events that recognize different groups. Bring people together to experience and learn about ethnic and cultural traditions. Involve children, youth and adults of all ages in intergenerational activities to lend support to and learn from each other.

 HD10 Work to improve access to City and community services and to remove obstacles that keep people from receiving the services they need.

 a. Improve facility and program accessibility through implementation of the Americans with Disabilities Act.

 b. Enhance opportunities for people with disabilities, limited English-speaking ability, and other barriers to service to participate fully in community life and to access assistance.

 HD11 Promote culturally responsive and relevant service delivery. Strive to ensure that City-funded agencies and services provide appropriate service.

 HD12 Include diverse individuals and interests on City of Seattle boards, commissions, advisory committees, and in the neighborhood planning process.

 C. VULNERABLE POPULATIONS

 Goals:

 G4. Create a caring community that nurtures and supports children and older adults.

 G5. Strive to alleviate the impacts of poverty, low income and conditions that make people vulnerable.

 Discussion: Seattle's economic future and quality of life depend on the development of its people. Our children and youth are the most important resource in Seattle's sustainability. The entire community should share in supporting their growth and development. There are other people, both individuals and families, who are vulnerable or face barriers to functioning independently. The community also should help them flourish and participate fully in the life of the city. The City recognizes its role in making Seattle the kind of place people of all ages want to live and raise their families, and those who are most vulnerable will have access to assistance they need. Certain polices pertaining to low income and special needs housing may be found in the Housing Element.

 Policies:

 HD13 Promote the investment by adults in the healthy development of the community's children and youth.

 HD14 Emphasize prevention and early intervention to reduce risks and strengthen resiliency of children and youth.

 HD15 Enhance opportunities that help children and youth gain skills and self-esteem, and foster a sense of hope and optimism about the future.

 HD16 Reinforce efforts that strengthen the ability of children, youth and families to help themselves and each other. Promote activities that send clear messages about high expectations for children, help teach children and youth to act responsibly, and acknowledge young people's accomplishments.

 HD17 Encourage coordinated service delivery that responds to emergency survival needs and focuses on promoting long-term self- reliance for vulnerable populations.

 HD18 Strive to assist and enhance efforts that help older people meet their basic needs, maintain their independence as long as possible, and remain in their neighborhoods of choice.

 HD19 Work with other jurisdictions, institutions and community organizations to develop a strong continuum of community-based long-term care services.

 D. EDUCATION AND EMPLOYABILITY

 Goals:

 G6. Promote an excellent education system and opportunities for life-long learning for all Seattle residents.

 G7. Promote development of literacy and employability among Seattle residents.

 Discussion: The City of Seattle recognizes the importance of a well educated population and young people with the skills to pursue opportunities and careers of their choice. The City recognizes the need to work with others to make quality education and opportunities for learning and training available to children, youth and adults. Certain policies pertaining to employment and training may be found in Section A. Labor Force Education, Development and Training in the Economic Development Element.

 Policies:

 HD20 Encourage parent, volunteer, business and community support for education and their involvement in schools.

 HD21 Strive to support families so their children can be ready to learn as they enter school. Help coordinate service delivery to families and their children through school-linked programs and support services.

 HD22 Work with the Seattle Public Schools to create learning environments in and after school that promote academic and personal achievement for all children. Recognize that community- based learning through service projects has value both to the student and the community.

 HD23 Work with schools, libraries, community centers, agencies and organizations to link services into a seamless system that helps students stay in school, including co-location and joint use of facilities to make a broader variety of services available to students.

 HD24 Enhance opportunities for increased access to literacy development and English-as a Second Language (ESL) resources.

 HD25 Work with community colleges, universities and other institutions of higher learning to promote life-long learning opportunities for community members and encourage the broadest possible use of libraries, community centers, schools, and other existing facilities throughout the city, focusing on development of these resources in urban villages areas.

 HD26 Work with schools and other educational institutions, community-based organizations, and other governments to develop strong linkages between education and training programs and employability development resources.

 E. HEALTH

 Goal:

 G8. Create a healthy environment where community members are able to practice healthy living, are well nourished, and have good access to affordable health care.

 Discussion: People's health is a major determinant of their quality of life and ability to participate fully in the community. The City recognizes the importance of health care for all of Seattle's residents. Local efforts should help people in groups disproportionately affected by health risks and adverse conditions. Certain policies pertaining to recreation may be found in Section E. Open Space Network of the Land Use Element; and policies pertaining to the environment may be found in Land Use, Transportation and Capital Facilities elements.

 Policies:

 HD27 Encourage Seattle residents to adopt healthy and active lifestyles to improve their general health and well-being. Provide opportunities for people to participate in fitness and recreational activities and to enjoy available open space.

 HD28 Work toward the reduction of health risks and behaviors leading to chronic and infectious diseases and infant mortality, with particular emphasis on populations disproportionately affected by these conditions.

 HD29 Encourage public and private efforts that support food banks and nutrition programs, especially to meet the nutritional needs of infants, children and the elderly.

 HD30 Work to reduce environmental threats and hazards to health.

 a. Make use of the City's building and fire codes, food licensing and permit processes,and hazardous materials and smoking regulations for fire and life safety protection.

 b. Collaborate through joint efforts among City agencies, such as fire, police, and construction and land use to address health and safety issues.

 HD31 Encourage efforts that enhance strong family relationships and healthy child development and work in partnership with the state, King County and community agencies to reduce violence and injury, in areas such as child abuse, sexual assault, domestic violence, firearms injury, and violence associated with substance abuse.

 HD32 Seek to improve the quality of, and access to, health care, including physical and mental health, emergency medical, and addiction services.

 a. Collaborate with community organizations and health providers to advocate for quality health care and broader accessibility to services.

 b. Pursue co-location of programs and services, particularly in under-served areas and in urban village areas.

 F. COMMUNITY SAFETY

 Goals:

 G9. Strive to reduce violence and fear of crime.

 G10. Help families, neighborhoods, and communities participate in addressing their safety concerns.

 Discussion: Public safety is an individual, family, and social responsibility -- not just a job for the City and Seattle Police Department. It is more than enacting and enforcing laws. It goes beyond preventing crime. The City recognizes that building safer communities requires the commitment of all of Seattle's residents, youth and adults alike. City government can act as a catalyst in this effort. It can help build partnerships and make connections between the individuals and groups that can work together to address persistent community and neighborhood problems.

 Policies:

 HD33 Encourage a policing strategy that works in partnership with the community to reduce crime through prevention, education and enforcement, and encourages communities to build block-by- block networks to prevent crime, develop social networks, and solve common problems.

 HD34 Work with neighborhood groups, community agencies and other levels of government to educate people about crime prevention, firearm safety, and organized neighborhood safety activities. Use the joint efforts of City agencies, such as fire, police and construction and land use, and community organizations to identify and address safety concerns.

 HD35 Make public safety a consideration in design and management of public spaces to prevent crime and fear in public facilities and gathering places, streets and parking and shopping areas.

 HD36 Enhance efforts that support informal monitoring, foster legitimate activities, and give the neighborhood a sense of ownership and control over the space.

 HD37 Strengthen the linkage between public safety and human services to encourage lawful behavior and reduce vulnerabilities of street populations.

 HD38 Strive to prevent youth crime and reduce youth violence and gang activity.

 a. Promote efforts that increase youths' attachment to the community, involvement in legitimate activities, commitment to and success in education and employment, and participation in the community.

 b. Support activities that are wholesome alternatives to crime and violence.

 c. Involve young people in discussions about community crime and prevention.

 HD39 Work with the state and King County to focus criminal justice efforts on preventing the most seriously threatening and predatory crimes and violent drug-related crimes.

 HD40 Work with the state, King County and community organizations to connect local detention facilities with the service system.

 HD41 Recognize the interdependence among the courts, jails, prosecutors and police and encourage better coordination of resources. Promote sharing of information through state-of-the- art technology for greater efficiency in the criminal justice system.

 HD42 Develop an increased level of emergency preparedness among all segments of the population to help coordinate governmental response and recovery efforts that seek to minimize the adversity of a major emergency or disaster.

 G. SERVICE DELIVERY

 Goal:

 G11. Develop a more flexible, comprehensive, coordinated and efficient system of services that addresses whole needs of people, families, and communities.

 Discussion: Access, linkages, and quality assurance help make services work better for individuals, families and neighborhoods. Neighborhood-based service delivery helps integrate people into their communities. Co-location of services and other collaborative efforts can improve access. Specialized services may not be provided in a given neighborhood, so good information on service locations throughout the community and transportation are important. Through the use of its limited resources, the City has an important role to play in building efficient human service and public safety systems with easy access for people. Certain policies pertaining to transportation may be found in Section G. Transit and Public Transportation of the Transportation Element.

 Policies:

 HD43 Encourage cooperative planning, decision-making and funding for health and human service delivery throughout the region. Join with other public and private institutions in the region to strive for a stable and adequate funding base for services that support safe and healthy communities.

 HD44 Promote effective, efficient community-based and community- delivered services using a combination of public, private, community and personal resources.

 HD45 Strive to provide better and more coordinated information to people about the availability of services in the community and make use of available and new technologies to improve access to services and information.

 HD46 Encourage customer-focused services with feedback from those who use them and involvement of consumers in identifying needs and planning for service delivery.

 HD47 Encourage connections between services that coordinate, link and integrate public, private and community-based services. Facilitate collaboration of programs through the use of City funding.

 HD48 Encourage consideration of issues like transportation and the need for dependent care in planning for health, human services, and recreation programs.

 HD49 Encourage neighborhood planning efforts to address a broad range of human issues in a context of both neighborhood strengths and needs to identify solutions to service concerns and find ways to make service delivery more accessible and user-friendly.

 HD50 Work to ensure equitable sharing and siting of facilities in ways that promote access and efficient use of community resources.

 a. Use siting policies and good neighbor guidelines to strive for distribution of services that considers the needs of consumers and the community and focuses growth in urban village areas.

 b. Encourage use of existing facilities and co-location of services, including joint use of schools and City and community facilities, to make services more available in urban village areas.

 HD51 Collaborate with community organizations and other jurisdictions to advocate for strong health, human service and public safety systems, including services for which the City does not carry primary responsibility, such as mental health and substance abuse.

 HD52 Seek effective ways to measure program performance and results, balancing accountability and efficiency with the need to encourage service innovation.

 10/2/95

 ATTACHMENT 1

 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT ELEMENT

 AND AMENDMENTS TO THE

 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ELEMENT

 The entire Human Development Element is new and will be added to the end of the Comprehensive Plan, following the Neighborhood Planning Element.

 Additions to the Economic Development Element are shown in underline, deletions are shown in strike-through.

 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT ELEMENT

 (Element adopted 11/95)

 Table of Contents

 A. COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION 3

 B. DIVERSITY 4

 C. VULNERABLE POPULATIONS 5

 D. EDUCATION AND EMPLOYABILITY 6

 E. HEALTH 7

 F. COMMUNITY SAFETY 8

 G. SERVICE DELIVERY 10

 A. COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION

 Goals:

 G1. Make Seattle a place where people are involved in community and neighborhood life; where they help each other and contribute to the vitality of the city.

 Discussion: Healthy and safe communities do not just happen -- they are the product of people working together and investing time, energy and commitment. City government has an important role to play, but institutions alone cannot create or sustain community. By their involvement in civic and neighborhood activities, people see the impact of their own actions, recognize the difference they make, and can become acquainted with the people around them. This reinforces the understanding that personal responsibility is crucial to development of a vibrant, growing community.

 Policies:

 HD1 Work toward achieving a sense of belonging among all Seattle residents.

 a. Promote opportunities that bring people together to help them build

 connections to each other, their neighbors and the greater community.

 b. Enhance opportunities for intergenerational activities.

 c. Strive to reach people in new ways to encourage broad participation in

 neighborhood and community activities and events.

 HD2 Promote volunteerism and community service.

 a. Enhance people's access to information about opportunities to contribute their time, energy or resources.

 b. Encourage young people of all ages to be involved in creating and participating in community service projects.

 HD3 Strengthen efforts to involve people in the planning and decision-making that affect their lives, with particular emphasis on the neighborhood planning process in urban villages areas.

 HD4 Encourage other governments, schools, and institutions to provide opportunities for people's participation in discussions that shape decisions about their neighborhoods and communities.

 HD5 Encourage people to take responsibility for their lives and to nurture their families, children and circle of friends.

 HD6 Encourage people to be informed and involved, so they can make educated choices about their lives and assist in finding community solutions to issues and problems and responses to opportunities.

 B. DIVERSITY

 Goals:

 G2. Promote respect and appreciation for diversity, including economic, racial, cultural and individual differences.

 G3. Provide equal opportunity and fair access to services.

 Discussion: Seattle benefits from a diverse citizenry. We can capitalize on the varied heritage, talents and perspectives of our members to build a stronger community. The City recognizes that every human being should have the opportunity to succeed, to contribute and to be treated with dignity.

 Policies:

 HD7 Encourage community efforts that work toward integration in Seattle to achieve a diversity of ages, incomes, household types and sizes, and cultural backgrounds in all neighborhoods.

 HD8 In addition to upholding federal, state and local laws against discrimination and bias crimes, work to promote human rights and mutual respect and to end intolerance and divisiveness. Reach out and bring people together in ways that build bridges between individuals and between groups.

 HD9 Celebrate diversity through community activities and events that recognize different groups. Bring people together to experience and learn about ethnic and cultural traditions. Involve children, youth and adults of all ages in intergenerational activities to lend support to and learn from each other.

 HD10 Work to improve access to City and community services and to remove obstacles that keep people from receiving the services they need.

 a. Improve facility and program accessibility through implementation of the Americans with Disabilities Act.

 b. Enhance opportunities for people with disabilities, limited English-speaking ability, and other barriers to service to participate fully in community life and to access assistance.

 HD11 Promote culturally responsive and relevant service delivery. Strive to ensure that City-funded agencies and services provide appropriate service.

 HD12 Include diverse individuals and interests on City of Seattle boards, commissions, advisory committees, and in the neighborhood planning process.

 C. VULNERABLE POPULATIONS

 Goals:

 G4. Create a caring community that nurtures and supports children and older adults.

 G5. Strive to alleviate the impacts of poverty, low income and conditions that make people vulnerable.

 Discussion: Seattle's economic future and quality of life depend on the development of its people. Our children and youth are the most important resource in Seattle's sustainability. The entire community should share in supporting their growth and development. There are other people, both individuals and families, who are vulnerable or face barriers to functioning independently. The community also should help them flourish and participate fully in the life of the city. The City recognizes its role in making Seattle the kind of place people of all ages want to live and raise their families, and those who are most vulnerable will have access to assistance they need. Certain polices pertaining to low income and special needs housing may be found in the Housing Element.

 Policies:

 HD13 Promote the investment by adults in the healthy development of the community's children and youth.

 HD14 Emphasize prevention and early intervention to reduce risks and strengthen resiliency of children and youth.

 HD15 Enhance opportunities that help children and youth gain skills and self-esteem, and foster a sense of hope and optimism about the future.

 HD16 Reinforce efforts that strengthen the ability of children, youth and families to help themselves and each other. Promote activities that send clear messages about high expectations for children, help teach children and youth to act responsibly, and acknowledge young people's accomplishments.

 HD17 Encourage coordinated service delivery that responds to emergency survival needs and focuses on promoting long-term self- reliance for vulnerable populations.

 HD18 Strive to assist and enhance efforts that help older people meet their basic needs, maintain their independence as long as possible, and remain in their neighborhoods of choice.

 HD19 Work with other jurisdictions, institutions and community organizations to develop a strong continuum of community-based long-term care services.

 D. EDUCATION AND EMPLOYABILITY

 Goals:

 G6. Promote an excellent education system and opportunities for life-long learning for all Seattle residents.

 G7. Promote development of literacy and employability among Seattle residents.

 Discussion: The City of Seattle recognizes the importance of a well educated population and young people with the skills to pursue opportunities and careers of their choice. The City recognizes the need to work with others to make quality education and opportunities for learning and training available to children, youth and adults. Certain policies pertaining to employment and training may be found in Section A. Labor Force Education, Development and Training in the Economic Development Element.

 Policies:

 HD20 Encourage parent, volunteer, business and community support for education and their involvement in schools.

 HD21 Strive to support families so their children can be ready to learn as they enter school. Help coordinate service delivery to families and their children through school-linked programs and support services.

 HD22 Work with the Seattle Public Schools to create learning environments in and after school that promote academic and personal achievement for all children. Recognize that community- based learning through service projects has value both to the student and the community.

 HD23 Work with schools, libraries, community centers, agencies and organizations to link services into a seamless system that helps students stay in school, including co-location and joint use of facilities to make a broader variety of services available to students.

 HD24 Enhance opportunities for increased access to literacy development and English-as a Second Language (ESL) resources.

 HD25 Work with community colleges, universities and other institutions of higher learning to promote life-long learning opportunities for community members and encourage the broadest possible use of libraries, community centers, schools, and other existing facilities throughout the city, focusing on development of these resources in urban villages areas.

 HD26 Work with schools and other educational institutions, community-based organizations, and other governments to develop strong linkages between education and training programs and employability development resources.

 E. HEALTH

 Goal:

 G8. Create a healthy environment where community members are able to practice healthy living, are well nourished, and have good access to affordable health care.

 Discussion: People's health is a major determinant of their quality of life and ability to participate fully in the community. The City recognizes the importance of health care for all of Seattle's residents. Local efforts should help people in groups disproportionately affected by health risks and adverse conditions. Certain policies pertaining to recreation may be found in Section E. Open Space Network of the Land Use Element; and policies pertaining to the environment may be found in Land Use, Transportation and Capital Facilities elements.

 Policies:

 HD27 Encourage Seattle residents to adopt healthy and active lifestyles to improve their general health and well-being. Provide opportunities for people to participate in fitness and recreational activities and to enjoy available open space.

 HD28 Work toward the reduction of health risks and behaviors leading to chronic and infectious diseases and infant mortality, with particular emphasis on populations disproportionately affected by these conditions.

 HD29 Encourage public and private efforts that support food banks and nutrition programs, especially to meet the nutritional needs of infants, children and the elderly.

 HD30 Work to reduce environmental threats and hazards to health.

 a. Make use of the City's building and fire codes, food licensing and permit processes,and hazardous materials and smoking regulations for fire and life safety protection.

 b. Collaborate through joint efforts among City agencies, such as fire, police, and construction and land use to address health and safety issues.

 HD31 Encourage efforts that enhance strong family relationships and healthy child development and work in partnership with the state, King County and community agencies to reduce violence and injury, in areas such as child abuse, sexual assault, domestic violence, firearms injury, and violence associated with substance abuse.

 HD32 Seek to improve the quality of, and access to, health care, including physical and mental health, emergency medical, and addiction services.

 a. Collaborate with community organizations and health providers to advocate for quality health care and broader accessibility to services.

 b. Pursue co-location of programs and services, particularly in under-served areas and in urban village areas.

 F. COMMUNITY SAFETY

 Goals:

 G9. Strive to reduce violence and fear of crime.

 G10. Help families, neighborhoods, and communities participate in addressing their safety concerns.

 Discussion: Public safety is an individual, family, and social responsibility -- not just a job for the City and Seattle Police Department. It is more than enacting and enforcing laws. It goes beyond preventing crime. The City recognizes that building safer communities requires the commitment of all of Seattle's residents, youth and adults alike. City government can act as a catalyst in this effort. It can help build partnerships and make connections between the individuals and groups that can work together to address persistent community and neighborhood problems.

 Policies:

 HD33 Encourage a policing strategy that works in partnership with the community to reduce crime through prevention, education and enforcement, and encourages communities to build block-by- block networks to prevent crime, develop social networks, and solve common problems.

 HD34 Work with neighborhood groups, community agencies and other levels of government to educate people about crime prevention, firearm safety, and organized neighborhood safety activities. Use the joint efforts of City agencies, such as fire, police and construction and land use, and community organizations to identify and address safety concerns.

 HD35 Make public safety a consideration in design and management of public spaces to prevent crime and fear in public facilities and gathering places, streets and parking and shopping areas.

 HD36 Enhance efforts that support informal monitoring, foster legitimate activities, and give the neighborhood a sense of ownership and control over the space.

 HD37 Strengthen the linkage between public safety and human services to encourage lawful behavior and reduce vulnerabilities of street populations.

 HD38 Strive to prevent youth crime and reduce youth violence and gang activity.

 a. Promote efforts that increase youths' attachment to the community, involvement in legitimate activities, commitment to and success in education and employment, and participation in the community.

 b. Support activities that are wholesome alternatives to crime and violence.

 c. Involve young people in discussions about community crime and prevention.

 HD39 Work with the state and King County to focus criminal justice efforts on preventing the most seriously threatening and predatory crimes and violent drug-related crimes.

 HD40 Work with the state, King County and community organizations to connect local detention facilities with the service system.

 HD41 Recognize the interdependence among the courts, jails, prosecutors and police and encourage better coordination of resources. Promote sharing of information through state-of-the- art technology for greater efficiency in the criminal justice system.

 HD42 Develop an increased level of emergency preparedness among all segments of the population to help coordinate governmental response and recovery efforts that seek to minimize the adversity of a major emergency or disaster.

 G. SERVICE DELIVERY

 Goal:

 G11. Develop a more flexible, comprehensive, coordinated and efficient system of services that addresses whole needs of people, families, and communities.

 Discussion: Access, linkages, and quality assurance help make services work better for individuals, families and neighborhoods. Neighborhood-based service delivery helps integrate people into their communities. Co-location of services and other collaborative efforts can improve access. Specialized services may not be provided in a given neighborhood, so good information on service locations throughout the community and transportation are important. Through the use of its limited resources, the City has an important role to play in building efficient human service and public safety systems with easy access for people. Certain policies pertaining to transportation may be found in Section G. Transit and Public Transportation of the Transportation Element.

 Policies:

 HD43 Encourage cooperative planning, decision-making and funding for health and human service delivery throughout the region. Join with other public and private institutions in the region to strive for a stable and adequate funding base for services that support safe and healthy communities.

 HD44 Promote effective, efficient community-based and community- delivered services using a combination of public, private, community and personal resources.

 HD45 Strive to provide better and more coordinated information to people about the availability of services in the community and make use of available and new technologies to improve access to services and information.

 HD46 Encourage customer-focused services with feedback from those who use them and involvement of consumers in identifying needs and planning for service delivery.

 HD47 Encourage connections between services that coordinate, link and integrate public, private and community-based services. Facilitate collaboration of programs through the use of City funding.

 HD48 Encourage consideration of issues like transportation and the need for dependent care in planning for health, human services, and recreation programs.

 HD49 Encourage neighborhood planning efforts to address a broad range of human issues in a context of both neighborhood strengths and needs to identify solutions to service concerns and find ways to make service delivery more accessible and user-friendly.

 HD50 Work to ensure equitable sharing and siting of facilities in ways that promote access and efficient use of community resources.

 a. Use siting policies and good neighbor guidelines to strive for distribution of services that considers the needs of consumers and the community and focuses growth in urban village areas.

 b. Encourage use of existing facilities and co-location of services, including joint use of schools and City and community facilities, to make services more available in urban village areas.

 HD51 Collaborate with community organizations and other jurisdictions to advocate for strong health, human service and public safety systems, including services for which the City does not carry primary responsibility, such as mental health and substance abuse.

 HD52 Seek effective ways to measure program performance and results, balancing accountability and efficiency with the need to encourage service innovation.

 10/2/95

 ATTACHMENT 2

 Language which is new is underlined:

 Transportation Element

 H. PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLES

T49.5Develop and use methods for describing and measuring the provision and performance of non-motorized travel facilities. These methods shall address the following:

The quality of the travel experience, including minimized delay and discomfort, directness of travel along routes, and attractiveness of the travel environment;

An identification of barriers to non-motorized travel, such as terrain, insufficient right-of-way, conflict with other street uses, lack of sidewalks and lack of adequate signage;

Continuity of travel along a non-motorized travel network throughout the city and, for regional travel, across the City's borders.

The type and scale of non-motorized travel facilities consistent with existing and anticipated demand for use;

Safety and accessibility for the large number and variety of non-motorized travel-facility users; and

Flexible levels of emphasis for non-motorized travel facilities and programs between different areas of the city.

These methods shall promote non-motorized travel opportunities by monitoring the existing facilities and programs, identifying their strengths, deficiencies and the potential improvements to them, and by encouraging the development of new and innovative facilities and programs. They shall support a process for the efficient allocation of the City's transportation resources, and facilitate the implementation of the comprehensive plan policies for non-motorized travel through both neighborhood planning and general transportation system planning. (New policy added 11/95)

 10/17/95 -22- B:

 ATTACHMENT 3

 Transportation Element

 Transportation Figure 1, Principal Arterials, is revised as shown on the attachment.

 Transportation Figure 6, Major Truck Streets, is revised as shown on the attachment.

 Language which is new is underlined:

 D. USE OF STREETS

 T15 Designate principal arterials, a transit priority network, and major truck streets as described in the policies in this and other sub-elements, to identify the key functions of these streets. Make operating, design, access, and/or service changes to enhance the key functions of these streets when congestion significantly hinders the key functions. Changes to these streets to enhance their key function(s) should maintain or enhance pedestrian facilities to be commensurate with the expected type and volume of traffic. (Amended 11/95)

 10/17/95 -23- F:

```
