

********

**Council Bill Number: 92197**
********

 Referring to the voters at a special municipal election to be held in Seattle on Feb. 8, 1972 a referendum proposition to terminate the R.H. Thomson (Empire) Expressway Project contemplated by Ord. 88825 approved by the voters on Mar. 8, 1960; to reimburse the State of Wash. for expenses incurred by it and the United States Government in connection with such project, to dispose of properties previously acquired in connection therewith; to terminate certain other projects contemplated by Ord. 88825; to abandon authorization to issue $11,128,000 of unissued bond authorized by Ord. 88825, and calling for an election and providing for the certification of such referendum proposition and prescribing the ballot title.

**Status:** Indefinitely Postponed
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 17, 1971
   
**Committee:** Committee of Whole
   
   
**Index Terms:** ELECTIONS, BONDS, SALES, HIGHWAYS, STREETS, CONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENT, FREEWAYS, INITIATIVES-AND-REFERENDA

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

