

********

**Council Bill Number: 92334**
   
**Ordinance Number: 100715**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6466, and repealing Ordinance No. 100097, dated July 14, 1971, in connection therewith, for the improvement of HARBOR AVENUE SOUTHWEST from Southwest Florida Street to approximately 975 feet northwesterly thereof; and a certain other avenue; by constructing sanitary sewers and otherwise improving the same; under Ordinance No. 99427, and levying and assessing the amounts ... estblishing a Local Improvement Fund, and amending Section 4 of Ordinance No. 99427.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 14, 1972
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 17, 1972
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 17, 1972
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 7, 1972
   
**Committee:** Streets and Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, SANITARY-SEWERS, NORTH-ADMIRAL, INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICT, WEST-SEATTLE

**References/Related Documents:** Repealing: Ord 100097. Amending: Ord 99427.

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

