

********

**Council Bill Number: 18644**
   
**Ordinance Number: 30328**
********

 An Ordinance specifying and adopting a system or plan proposed by The City of Seattle for enlarging and extending the municipal light and power plant and system constructed and acquired pursuant to the provisions of Ordinance No. 7708, Ordinance No. 11461, Ordinance No. 13242, Ordinance No. 19605 and Ordinance No. 25009, declaring the estimated cost thereof, as near as may be, authorizing and indebtedness therefor, and submitting the same for ratification or rejection to the qualified voters of said city, at the general election to be held in said city on the 4th day of March, 1913.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 4, 1912
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 16, 1912
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:**
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 4, 1912
   
   
**Index Terms:** ENERGY-FACILITIES, CONSTRUCTION

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 7708, Ord 11461, Ord 13242, Ord 19605, Ord 25009

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

