

********

**Council Bill Number: 18722**
   
**Ordinance Number: 30286**
********

 An Ordinance repealing Ordinance No. 30063, entitled: "An Ordinance accepting a deed from Frank D. Black and Kate H. Black, his wife, to the City of Seattle, executed on the Sixth Day of September, 1912, for all that portion of Columbia Park lying within the following described limits, viz. Beginning at the southwest corner of Lot 1536, Block 55, Columbia Supplemental No. 1, as recorded in Vol. 8 of Plats, p. 12, Records of King Co., Washington; thence in a northwesterly direction along a line parallel with the westerly marginal line of Rainier Avenue, as platted in Columbia Terrace, a plat recorded in Vol. 10 of Plat, p. 48 of said records of King County, 200 feet; thence northeasterly at right angles 75 feet more or less to the westerly marginal line of Rainier Avenue; thence southeasterly along the northwesterly marginal line of said Lot An Ordinance relating to and southerly along the westerly marginal line of said Lot 1536 to the point of beginning," approved September 25th, 1912.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 4, 1912
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 6, 1912
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 6, 1912
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 28, 1912
   
**Committee:** Finance
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, COLUMBIA-CITY, RAINIER-VALLEY

**References/Related Documents:** Repealing: Ord 30063

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

