

********

**Council Bill Number: 101181**
   
**Ordinance Number: 109034**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing a Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Seattle and Automotive Machinists, Local No. 289; International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local No. 77 International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers, Local No. 17; the Joint Crafts Council and the affiliates thereto; United Association of Jouneymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry, Local No. 32; and Washington State Council of County and City Employees, Local No. 21, as the representatives of certain City employees concerning the City Light Department Skagit Housing Program.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 12, 1980
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 23, 1980
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 23, 1980
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 31, 1980
   
**Committee:** Personnel Property Management
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** COLLECTIVE-BARGAINING, CITY-EMPLOYEES, WAGES-AND-SALARIES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

