

********

**Council Bill Number: 88092**
   
**Ordinance Number: 96561**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to and amending Plats 40W, 40E, and 44W, page 110, 111, 116 of the Official Zoning Map of the City of Seattle, Ordinance 86300, to rezone certain property in A. A. Denny's Broadway Add.; Suppl. Plat of Edes and Knight's Add.; Mile's Add.; A.A. Denny's Donation Claim #40; Union Add. Suppl. Plat; Replat 12th Ave. Add.; Heirs of Sarah A. Bell 2nd Add.; Sackman's Home Add.; A.A. Denny's 5th Add.; A.A. Denny's Ext., Terry's 1st Add.; Terry's 1st Add.; Plat of Yesler Terrace Add.; Terry's 2nd Add.; McNaught's 2nd Add.; Eastern Add.; Eastern Add. Suppl.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 25, 1968
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 27, 1968
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 27, 1968
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 18, 1968
   
**Committee:** Planning
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, REZONES, MULTI-FAMILY-RESIDENTIAL-AREAS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 260267. Amending: Ord 86300.

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

