

********

**Council Bill Number: 88326**
   
**Ordinance Number: 96820**
********

 An ordinance relating to condemnation proceedings to acquire such property rights as may be necessary for an existing monorail system in Fourth Ave. North, Thomas Street, Fifth Ave. North, Denny Way, Fifth Ave., Westlake Ave. and Pine Street, including the terminal and escalator access thereto, and an aerial easement at the corner of Fifth Ave. North and Denny Way, under Ordinance 93917, King County Cause No. 642136, accepting certain condemnation awards (Parcels 55, 69 & 77) and making a reimbursable appropriation from the Emergency Fund for payment thereof.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 17, 1968
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 26, 1968
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 10, 1968
   
**Committee:** Finance
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, CONDEMNATION, MONORAIL-SYSTEM, RIGHT-OF-WAY, SEATTLE-CENTER-FACILITIES, LOWER-QUEEN-ANNE, SOUTH-LAKE-UNION, CASCADE, BELLTOWN, DOWNTOWN, CENTRAL-BUSINESS-DISTRICT

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 93917

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

