

********

**Council Bill Number: 11857**
   
**Ordinance Number: 24080**
********

 An Ordinance repealing Ordinance No. 16778, entitled, "An Ordinance providing for the improvement of the alleys in the following blocks of the following Additions to the City of Seattle: Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, Capitol Hill Addition to the City of Seattle, Division No. 1; Blocks 13, 17, 18, 19 and 20, Capitol Hill Addition to the City of Seattle, Division No. 2; Blocks 9, 10 and 12, Capitol Hill Addition to the City of Seattle, Division No. 2; Blocks 9, 10 and 12, Capitol Hill Addition to the City of Seattle, Division No. 3; Blocks 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31, Capitol Hill Addition to the City of Seattle Avenue North and Eighteenth Avenue North, and East Roy Street and East Galer Street, except the alleys between Fifteenth Avenue North and Sixteenth Avenue North, and East Roy Street and East Aloha Street; and between Fourteenth Avenue North and Fifteenth Avenue North, and East Aloha Street and East Ward Street, all in the City of Seattle, by paving the same with vitrified brick, laid upon a proper concrete foundation, together with such sewerage and drainage as may be necessary, all in accordance with Resolution No. 735 of the City Council of the City of Seattle, and providing for the payment therefor by the mode of "Payment by Bonds," as provided by the laws of the State of Washington and the Charter and Ordinances of the City of Seattle," approved September 3rd, 1907.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 2, 1910
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 9, 1910
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 9, 1910
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 25, 1910
   
**Committee:** Streets
   
   
**Index Terms:** STREET-CONSTRUCTION, ALLEYS, PAVING, DRAINAGE, BROADWAY, CAPITOL-HILL, STEVENS

**References/Related Documents:** Repealing: Ord 16778

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

