

********

**Council Bill Number: 11940**
   
**Ordinance Number: 24164**
********

 An Ordinance further amending Section 148 of Ordinance No. 17240, entitled "An Ordinance relating to and regulating the construction, erection, alteration, arrangement, equipment, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupation of buildings and structures, and the use and occupation of lands and premises by and in connection with buildings and structures, within the limits of the City of Seattle, and within certain specified districts and localities therein, providing for the issuance of permits therefor, providing for the condemnation, closing and vacation of buildings and structures dangerous to persons and property, defining the powers and duties of certain officers in relation thereto, providing penalties for violations thereof, declaring certain things done violation of this ordinance to be nuisances, and providing for the abatement thereof," approved October 26, 1907, as amended by Ordinance No. 17974, Ordinance No. 19356 and Ordinance No. 22163, and amending Section 149 of said Ordinance No. 17240.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 16, 1910
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 23, 1910
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 23, 1910
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 2, 1910
   
**Committee:** Fire & Water
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUILDING-CODES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 17240. Related: Ord 22163, Ord 19356

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

