

********

**Council Bill Number: 71815**
   
**Ordinance Number: 80442**
********

 An ordinance relating to, and specifying and adopting a plan or system of additions and betterments to and extensions of, the existing municipal lighting and power system; providing for the purchase and construction of power tunnels, penstocks, etc. and clearing of reservoir at Ross Dam; substation houses, roads, docks, etc. at Diablo Dam; substation, etc. and a suspension bridge at Gorge Powerhouse; transmission lines; receiving substations; primary network substations; communication facilities over the entire system; oil storage facilities; underground and overhead extensions; garage, service buildings, etc. in the Seattle Area; improvements and other extensions, additions and betterments necessary to meet the city's customer demand; declaring the estimated cost thereof as near as may be, and providing for the issuance and sale of bonds to provide funds therefor; creating and establishing a construction fund and creating and establishing a special fund to pay the principal and interest of such bonds.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 29, 1951
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 31, 1951
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 31, 1951
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 24, 1951
   
**Committee:** Committee of Whole
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, SKAGIT-PROJECT, GORGE-DAM, HYDROELECTRIC-FACILITIES, CONSTRUCTION, BONDS, SUBSTATIONS, POWER-DISTRIBUTION-FACILITIES, TRANSMISSION-LINES, STORAGE-BUILDINGS, ROSS-DAM, DIABLO-DAM, RESERVOIRS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 213977.

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

