

********

**Council Bill Number: 81567**
   
**Ordinance Number: 90097**
********

 An ordinance approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6234 for the improvement of the alley in Block 13, West Side Heights Addition, being the alley in the block bounded by 37th Ave. Southwest, West Andover Street, 38th Ave. Southwest, Belvidere Ave. and West Charlestown Street; and certain other alleys; by paving and otherwise improving the same; under Ordinance No. 89436, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 20, 1961
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 23, 1961
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 23, 1961
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 13, 1961
   
**Committee:** Streets and Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, FUNDS, ASSESSMENT, PAVING, GRADING, DRAINAGE, WEST-SEATTLE, NORTH-ADMIRAL, GENESEE, JUNCTION, ALLEYS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 89436

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

