

********

**Council Bill Number: 56705**
   
**Ordinance Number: 65772**
********

 An ordinance providing for the acquisition by condemnation or purchase of certain lands, property and property rights for a sewer right-of-way for sewer purposes over and across a portion of the Southeast one-quarter of Section 28, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W. M., Government Lot 13 in Section 33, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W. M., Government Lot 12 in Section 33, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W. M., John Buckley Donation Land Claim No. 42, a portion of filled Duwamish River Bed lying between the meander lines of the John Buckley Donation Claim and the Henry Van Asselt Donation Claim, the Henry Van Asselt Donation Land Claim No. 50, the Francis McNatt Donation Land Claim No. 38, a portion of the filled Duwamish River Bed lying between the meander line of the John Buckley Donation Claim and the meander lines of the Francis McNatt Donation Claim and the Timothy Grow Donation Claim, and a portion of the Timothy Grow Donation Land Claim No. 44 and No. 48 and providing for the payment therefor.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 21, 1935
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 22, 1935
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 22, 1935
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 14, 1935
   
**Committee:** Finance and Streets & Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, CONDEMNATION, SANITARY-SEWERS, STORM-SEWERS, GEORGETOWN, TUKWILA, BOEING-FIELD

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

