

********

**Council Bill Number: 109159**
   
**Ordinance Number: 116212**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting electrical overhead and underground distribution easements over portions of Lot 1 of King County Short Plat No. 686015 as recorded under King County Recording No. 8707160772; Section 11, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W.M.; Section 10, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M.; Parcel A of City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 78-179, as recorded under Recording No. 7905151143; Lot A of King County Short Plat No. 9002222 being a portion of Government Lot 1, Section 25, Township 26 North, Range 3 East W.M., Lot 1 of King County Short Plat No. S89S0432 as recorded under Recording No. 9011080245, records of King County, Washington.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 8, 1992
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 15, 1992
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 15, 1992
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 26, 1992
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** NOLAND
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, EASEMENTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

