

********

**Council Bill Number: 109694**
   
**Ordinance Number: 116721**
********

 AN ORDINANCE Relating to the City Light Department accepting electrical underground and surface rights distribution easements over portions of Lot 28, Block 1, Homewood Park; Lot 4, Block 14 of Ballard Tide Lands; Lots 1 and 3, King County Short Plat No. S89SO432 (revised), recorded under Recording Number 9208189006; Lot 8, Block 3, Adams Home Tracts; Parcel A of Short Plat No. 8801913, recorded under King County Recording No. 8903090265; Lots 6, 7, 8 and 9, Block 12, Lago Vista; The Bayshore West, according to Condominium Declaration recorded under King County Recording No. 8607230602 and 8702191456; Lot 5, Block 14 of Ballard Tide Lands and Reserve No. 4 of Brygger's Second Home Addition to the City of Ballard; and placing said easements under the jurisdiction of the City Light Department.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 1, 1993
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 8, 1993
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 8, 1993
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 17, 1993
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** NOLAND
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, EASEMENTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

