

********

**Council Bill Number: 109675**
   
**Ordinance Number: 116696**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting electrical overhead and underground distribution easements over portions of Lot 42, Block 28, Lake Forest Park 3rd Addition; Lot 1, City of SeaTac Short Plat No. SPL0005-92, recorded under Recording No. 9208119001 in King County, Washington; Lots 46, 47 and 48, Block 2, White and Manning's Addition; Tract 10, Plat of Lake Dell; Block 44, Yesler's Third Addition; Lot 14, Block 21, Lake Forest Park 2nd Addition; Lots A, D and E, City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 9004533 as recorded under King County Recording No. 9204230490 and re-recorded under King County Recording No. 9206010260; and placing said easements under the jurisdiction of the City Light Department.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 17, 1993
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 20, 1993
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 19, 1993
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 10, 1993
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** NOLAND
   
   
**Index Terms:** EASEMENTS, CITY-LIGHT

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

