

********

**Council Bill Number: 105864**
   
**Ordinance Number: 113205**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Engineering Department and the Dept. of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the State of Washington Conservation Corps of the Dept. of Ecology, Dept. of Fisheries, Dept. of Game, Dept. of Agriculture, and the Parks and Recreation Commission to form a Washington Conservation corps crew for the Longfellow Creek Stream Rehabilitation project.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 8, 1986
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 18, 1986
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 10, 1986
   
**Committee:** Parks and Public Grounds
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** PARKS-DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON-STATE, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, WATER-POLLUTION, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, LONGFELLOW-CREEK, RIVERS-AND-STREAMS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

