

********

**Council Bill Number: 105820**
   
**Ordinance Number: 113137**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting overhead and underground electrical distribution easements over portions of Government Lot 1, Section 11, Township 23 North, Range 3 East, W.M.; Lots 12 and 13, Cedar Park No. 5; Vacated South 128th Street; Section 4, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M., Lots 10 and 11, Block 1, Cedar Park No. 3; tract 139, Assessor's Plat of Panorama Heights; Block 10 North Beach Addition; Section 13, Township 26 North, Range 3 East, W.M.; Tract "A" of King County Short Plat No. 377036; Parcel "C" of King County Short Plat No. 8402857; Lot 1, King County Short Plat No. 181002; and Tract "A" of preliminary King County Short Plat No. 385068, and placing said easements under the jurisdiction of the City Light Department.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 13, 1986
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 22, 1986
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 29, 1986
   
**Committee:** Energy
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** EASEMENTS, CITY-LIGHT

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

