

********

**Council Bill Number: 12298**
   
**Ordinance Number: 24458**
********

 An Ordinance amending Sections five (5), seven (7) and ten (10) of Ordinance No. 17240, entitled "An Ordinance relating to and regulating the construction, erection, alteration, arrangement, equipment, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupation of buildings and structures, and the use and occupation of lands and premises by and in connection with buildings and structures within the limits of the City of Seattle and within certain specified districts and localities therein, providing for the issuance of permits therefor, providing for the condemnation, closing and vacation of buildings and structures dangerous to persons and property, defining the powers and duties of certain officers in relation thereto, providing penalties for violations thereof, declaring certain things done in violation of this ordinance to be nuisances, and providing for the abatement thereof", approved October 26, 1907, as Section 5 of said ordinance is amended by Ordinance No. 22107, and as Section 7 of said Ordinance is amended by Ordinance No. 22107, and as Section 10 of said ordinance is amended by Ordinance Nos. 18752, 19584 and 21232.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 20, 1910
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 27, 1910
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 27, 1910
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 13, 1910
   
**Committee:** Fire & Water
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUILDING-CODES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 17240. Related: Ord 22107, Ord 18752, Ord 19584, Ord 21232

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

