

********

**Council Bill Number: 82039**
   
**Ordinance Number: 90553**
********

 An ordinance approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6236 for the improvement of the alley in Block 28, Lake Union Addition, as established by Ordinance No. 88566, being the alley in the block between Densmore Ave. and Wallingford Ave. from North 39th Street to North 40th Street; by paving and otherwise improving the same; under Ordinance No. 89499, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 18, 1961
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 18, 1961
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 18, 1961
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 11, 1961
   
**Committee:** Streets and Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, WALLINGFORD, ASSESSMENT, FUNDS, STREETS, PAVING, GRADING, DRAINAGE

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 89499

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

