

********

**Council Bill Number: 82433**
   
**Ordinance Number: 90954**
********

 An ordinance approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6226 for the improvement of West Roxbury Street from 17th Ave. Southwest to 35th Ave. Southwest; and certain other streets and avenues; (all streets and avenues designated in this ordinance are in accordance with the street nomenclature in effect at the time said local improvement district was created, and not as subsequently modified by Ordinance No. 89910.) by paving and otherwise improving the same; under Ordinance No. 89145 as amended by Ordinance No. 89251, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 13, 1962
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 16, 1962
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 16, 1962
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 5, 1962
   
**Committee:** Streets and Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ASSESSMENT, FUNDS, SOUTH-DELRIDGE, ROXHILL, WEST-SEATTLE, STREETS, PAVING, SANITARY-SEWERS, STORM-SEWERS, DRAINAGE, SIDE-SEWERS, WATER-MAINS, FIRE-HYDRANTS, SIDEWALKS, GRADING

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 89145, 89251

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

