

********

**Council Bill Number: 108724**
   
**Ordinance Number: 115824**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting aerial overhang distribution easements over portions of Lot 21, Block 32, Denny-Fuhrman Addition; Lot 1, King County Short Plat No. 1176064; Lot 16, Block 34, Cottage Grove No. 3; Parcel A of City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 8904910; Lot B, Seattle Short Plat No. 8903229; Lot 6, Block 1 Eckmann's Replat of Tract 4, Block 1, H.E. Orr Park Division No. 1 and Tract 3, Block 7, H.E. Orr Park; Lots 10 and 11, Block 1, Powell's Quarter Acre Tracts; Lot 18, Block 188, Gilman's Addition; Tract 6, Seattle Bitter Lake Acre Tracts; Lot 16, Block 27, Lake Forest Park Second Addition; Lot 12, Block 4, of Queen Anne Central Addition; Lot 5, Block 2, Wilson's Exposition Heights; Lot 3 of King County Short Plat No. 478021, and placing said easements under the jurisdiction of the City Light Department.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 16, 1991
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 20, 1991
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 20, 1991
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 19, 1991
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** SMITH
   
   
**Index Terms:** EASEMENTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

