

********

**Council Bill Number: 108751**
   
**Ordinance Number: 115841**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Engineering Department; authorizing the Mayor or the Director of Engineering to execute agreements for financial assistance for the design and construction of the Boren Ave./Madison St. UATA Signal Improvement project, the NE 65th St. UATA Signal Improvement project, the Fairview Ave. North UATA Signal Improvement project, the Rainier Ave. S./Martin Luther King Jr. Wy S. UATA Signal Improvement Project, the North/Northwest 39th St. UATA Signal Improvement project and the Fauntleroy Wy SW UATA Signal Improvement project; accepting money when received; and making a reimbursable appropriation from the Arterial City Street Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 23, 1991
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 30, 1991
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 30, 1991
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 3, 1991
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** BENSON
   
   
**Index Terms:** ENGINEERING-DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON-STATE, GRANTS, TRAFFIC-SIGNS-AND-SIGNALS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

