

********

**Council Bill Number: 108709**
   
**Ordinance Number: 115790**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting electrical overhead and underground distribution easements over portions of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 11, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W.M.; the south 20 feet of the east 130 feet of Lot 2, King County Short Plat No. 98605; the south 12.9 feet of Lot 1 and the South 12.9 feet of the East 21.00 feet of Lot 2, King County Short Plat No. 688031; the south 20 feet of the west 76 feet of Lot 7, Block 1, H.E. Orr Park Division No. 3; a 5 foot wide strip of land within Lot B of King County Short Plat No. 7893; the south 15 feet of Lot 1, King County Short Plat No. 986004.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 3, 1991
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 9, 1991
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 9, 1991
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 19, 1991
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** SMITH
   
   
**Index Terms:** EASEMENTS, PUBLIC-UTILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

