

********

**Council Bill Number: 108712**
   
**Ordinance Number: 115792**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting electrical underground and surface rights distribution easements over portions of Parcels A, B, and E, City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 83-549; A strip of land 18 feet in width in Government Lot 1, Section 2, Township 26 North, Range 3 East, W.M.; the north 15 feet and the west 15 feet of Lot 2 of Short Plat No. 09049 of Lot 5A, Block 4, First Addition to Lake Forest Park; the South 2.00 feet of Lot 5, City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 83-337; the South 11 feet of Parcel A, and the east 15 feet of Parcels A and B of King County Short Plat No. 79-22; the east 114.92 feet of Lot 1, except the south 10.00 feet of the east 104.92 feet thereof, and the south 5.00 feet of Lot 2 of King County Short Plat No. 584009.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 3, 1991
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 9, 1991
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 9, 1991
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 19, 1991
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** SMITH
   
   
**Index Terms:** EASEMENTS, PUBLIC-UTILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

