

********

**Council Bill Number: 97747**
   
**Ordinance Number: 105874**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of L.I.D. No. 6660 for the improvement of S. Holly St. from 33rd Ave. S. to 38th Ave. S.; and certain other streets and avenues; by construction watermains together with fire hydrants and the necessary appurtenances. Also, S. Graham St. at approx. 5 feet east of 33rd Ave. S.; by installing a fire hydrant; under Ord. No. 104822, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 20, 1976
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 24, 1976
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 24, 1976
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 7, 1976
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, HOLLY-PARK, MID-BEACON-HILL, WATER-MAINS, FIRE-HYDRANTS, ASSESSMENT, FUNDS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 104822

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

