

********

**Council Bill Number: 97749**
   
**Ordinance Number: 105859**
********

 AN ORDINANCE providing for the improvement of the alley in Block 3, Ashford Add., being the alley between 37th Ave. S.W. and 36th Ave. S.W. from S.W. Kenyon St. to S.W. Holden St.; by paving the same; by doing such grading or regrading as may be necessary; providing for the necessary surface drainage; all in accordance with Res. No. 24909 of the City Council of the City of Seattle, creating a Local Improvement District therefor, and providing that payment for said improvement be made by special assessments upon property in said district payable by the mode of installment notes.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 13, 1976
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 21, 1976
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 21, 1976
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 7, 1976
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** ALLEYS, LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, GATEWOOD, WEST-SEATTLE, DRAINAGE, PAVING, GRADING, ASSESSMENT

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 24909

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

