

********

**Council Bill Number: 97760**
   
**Ordinance Number: 105885**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6666 for the improvement of the alley in block 1, Herbert S. Upper's First Replat of Lincoln Beach, being the alley between California Ave. S.W. and 44th Ave. S.W. from S.W. Myrtle St. to S.W. Othello St.; by paving the same; by doing such grading or regrading as may be necessary; providing for the necessary surface drainage; under Ordinance No. 105207, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 27, 1976
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 4, 1976
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 4, 1976
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 20, 1976
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** BENSON
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ALLEYS, GATEWOOD, FAUNTLEROY, WEST-SEATTLE, PAVING, GRADING, DRAINAGE, ASSESSMENT, FUNDS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 105207

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

