

********

**Council Bill Number: 97879**
   
**Ordinance Number: 105978**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the improvement of S.W. Kenyon St. from 9th Ave. S.W. to approximately 130 feet east thereof and from approximately 130 feet west of 7th Ave. S.W. to 1st Ave. S.; and certain other street avenues, alleys and easements, by constructing sanitary sewers together with the necessary appurtenances and doing such other work as may be necessary in connection therewith, Local Improvement District No. 6683, and appropriating money from the Municipal Sewerage 1971 Construction Fund in aid thereof as a loan.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 15, 1976
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 23, 1976
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 23, 1976
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 8, 1976
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** HIGHLAND-PARK, WEST-SEATTLE, SANITARY-SEWERS, FINANCE

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 105979

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

