

********

**Council Bill Number: 97880**
   
**Ordinance Number: 105979**
********

 AN ORDINANCE providing for the improvement of S.W. Kenyon St. from 9th Ave. S.W. to approximately 130 feet east thereof and from approximately 130 feet west of 7th Ave. S.W. to 1st Ave. S.; and certain other streets, avenues, alleys and easements; by constructing sanitary sewers together with the necessary appurtenances; and doing such other work as may be necessary in connection therewith; all in accordance with Resolution No. 25286 of the City Council of the City of Seattle, creating a local improvement district therefor, and providing that payment for said improvement be made by special assessments upon property in said district payable by the mode of installment notes.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 15, 1976
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 23, 1976
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 23, 1976
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 8, 1976
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, WEST-SEATTLE, HIGHLAND-PARK, SANITARY-SEWERS, ASSESSMENT

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 25286, Ord 102560, 24262

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

