

********

**Council Bill Number: 35128**
   
**Ordinance Number: 45336**
********

 An ordinance providing for the modification and subdivision of certain local improvement assessments levied against certain property in Section Five (5), Township Twenty-five (25) North, Range Four (4) East, W.M., now platted as Gardner J. Gwinn's Addition to the City of Seattle, levied for the improvement of 10th Avenue Northeast, by grading, under Ordinance No. 35089, creating Local Improvement District No. 2891; for the improvement of East 80th Street, et al, by grading, under Ordinance no. 36595, creating Local Improvement District No. 3036; for the improvement of 10th Avenue Northeast et al, by watermains under Ordinance No. 36597, creating Local Improvement District No. 3038; for the improvement of 10th Avenue Northeast, et al, by paving, under Ordinance No. 40795, creating Local Improvement District No. 3285; for the improvement of Bothell Way, et al, by grading under Ordinance No. 41374, creating Local Improvement District No. 3354; for the improvement of East 70th Street, et al, by sewers, under Ordinance No. 42826, creating Local Improvement District No. 3458; for the improvement of Bothell Way, by paving under Ordinance No. 43231, creating Local Improvement District No. 3484.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 22, 1923
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 23, 1923
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 23, 1923
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 18, 1923
   
**Committee:** Streets & Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** ASSESSMENT, ROOSEVELT

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 35089, Ord 36595, Ord 36597, Ord 40794, Ord 40795, Ord 41374, Ord 42826, Ord 43231

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

