

********

**Council Bill Number: 83079**
   
**Ordinance Number: 91591**
********

 An ordinance approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6259 for the improvement of the alley in Block 9, Plat of Aero Heights No. 2, being the alley between 38th Ave. Southwest and 39th Ave. Southwest from Southwest Graham Street to Southwest Raymond Street; and certain other alleys; by paving and otherwise improving the same; under Ordinance No. 90785 as amended by Ordinance No. 90965, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 13, 1962
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 14, 1962
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 14, 1962
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 5, 1962
   
**Committee:** Streets and Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, GATEWOOD, WEST-SEATTLE, ALLEYS, PAVING, GRADING, DRAINAGE, ASSESSMENT, FUNDS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 90785

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

