

********

**Council Bill Number: 83392**
   
**Ordinance Number: 91902**
********

 An ordinance approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6266 for the improvement of the alley in Block 3, Francies R. Day's La Grande Addition, as established by King County Court Cause No. 393405, being the alley between Whitman Ave. North and Woodland Park Ave. North from NOrth 39th Street to North 40th Street; and certain other alleys; by paving and otherwise improving the same; under Ordinance No. 91351, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 4, 1963
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 5, 1963
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 5, 1963
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 25, 1963
   
**Committee:** Streets and Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** ASSESSMENT, LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ALLEYS, FREMONT, FUNDS, PAVING, GRADING, DRAINAGE

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 91351

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

