

********

**Council Bill Number: 83968**
   
**Ordinance Number: 92471**
********

 An ordinance laying off, opening, widening, extending and establishing North 130th and Northeast 130th Streets and the grades thereof between 3rd Ave. Northeast and Greenwood Ave. North, and Greenwood Ave. North and the grades thereof between North 130th Street and a point approximately 331 feet north thereof, and changing and establishing the grades of North Park Ave. North and Fremont Ave. North, between North 130th St., as established herein, and North 128th St.; providing for the acquisition by condemnation of property and property rights necessary therefor, including the right to construct slopes for cuts and fills on certain abutting property; establishing a pedestrian viaduct across Aurora Ave. North at North 130th St. and providing for the condemnation of a restrictive easement to protect such viaduct from damage by fire; providing for payment from the City Street Fund; and repealing Ordinance 91887.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 12, 1963
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 13, 1963
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 13, 1963
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 4, 1963
   
**Committee:** Streets and Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** CONDEMNATION, EASEMENTS, HALLER-LAKE, BITTER-LAKE, PINEHURST, NORTHGATE, STREETS, GRADING, LAND-ACQUISITION, PEDESTRIAN-BRIDGES, VIADUCTS, FINANCE

**References/Related Documents:** Repeals: Ord 91887

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

