

********

**Council Bill Number: 83966**
   
**Ordinance Number: 92469**
********

 An ordinance relating to the improvement of North and Northeast 130th St. from the Central Freeway in the vicinity of 3rd Ave. Northeast to Greenwood Ave. North (said street is being established by condemnation under authority of Ordinance No. 91887), by grading, by constructing concrete sidewalks and a multiple-lift surfaced roadway; by constructing storm drains; providing for the necessary surface drainage and otherwise improving the same, Local Improvement District No. 6295 and appropriating money from the Water Fund in aid thereof.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 12, 1963
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 13, 1963
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 13, 1963
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 4, 1963
   
**Committee:** Streets and Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, STREETS, HALLER-LAKE, BITTER-LAKE, NORTHGATE, PINEHURST, FINANCE, GRADING, PAVING, DRAINAGE, SIDEWALKS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 91887

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

