

********

**Council Bill Number: 93643**
   
**Ordinance Number: 101955**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting a deed from the State of Washington to portions of Blocks 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14 and 15, Hutchinson's Div. of Green Lake Add. to the City of Seattle, and Block 5, Fairview Add. to Green Lake, and Block 1, Sharpless Add. to the City of Seattle, together with the alley in said Block 1; Block 2 Epler's Div. of Green Lake Add., together with the alley in said Block 2; and portions of 4th Ave. NE, 5th Ave. NE, 6th Ave. NE, NE 75th St., NE 76th St., NE 77th St. and NE 78th St. abutting upon or adjacent to said Blocks in said Adds. (NE 75th St. to NE 80th St. Frontage Road); and repealing Ordinance No. 101769, which contained an error in the description in Section 2, Par. 5 thereof.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 12, 1973
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 19, 1973
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 19, 1973
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 5, 1973
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
   
**Index Terms:** WASHINGTON-STATE, LAND-ACQUISITION, ROOSEVELT, GREEN-LAKE

**References/Related Documents:** Repealing: Ord 101769

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

