

********

**Council Bill Number: 93669**
   
**Ordinance Number: 102023**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to and amending Plat 16W, page 63 of the Official Zoning Map of the City of Seattle, Ordinance 86300, to rezone certain property in that portion of Railway Company's right-of-way for its Sumas Branch in the SW-1/4 of SW-1/4 of Sec. 10, Twp. 25N, Range 4E W.M., located in the Burlington Northern Railroad right-of-way, extending approx. 250 ft. northeasterly of the east line of 37th Ave. N.E. (as extended).

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 9, 1973
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 12, 1973
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 12, 1973
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 12, 1973
   
**Committee:** Planning and Urban Development
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, REZONES, BUSINESS-ENTERPRISES, BURLINGTON-NORTHERN-INC, RIGHT-OF-WAY, UNIVERSITY-DISTRICT

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 273940. Amending: Ord 86300.

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

