

********

**Council Bill Number: 98152**
   
**Ordinance Number: 106237**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6670 for the improvement of the alley in Block 4, Walla Walla Addition being the alley between 20th Ave. and 21st Ave. from E. James St. to E. Cherry St.; by paving, etc.; under Ordinance No. 105483, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a local improvement fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 14, 1977
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 22, 1977
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 22, 1977
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 7, 1977
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** ASSESSMENT, LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ALLEYS, MINOR, CENTRAL-AREA, DRAINAGE, PAVING, GRADING

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 105483

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

