

********

**Council Bill Number: 98270**
   
**Ordinance Number: 106343**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Engineering Department; authorizing the preparation of plans, specifications, and cost estimates for the replacement of failed combined sewers in Dexter Ave. N. between Galer St. and Garfield St. and in the alley east of Second Ave. S. from S. Main St. and S. Jackson St. and the repair and rehabilitation of the sanitary sewer in S. Jackson St. between Second Ave. S. and Third Ave. S., and making an appropriation from the Sewer Fund therefor.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 28, 1977
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 31, 1977
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 31, 1977
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 21, 1977
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** SANITARY-SEWERS, PIONEER-SQUARE, WESTLAKE, CASCADE, SEWER-REPLACEMENT, STORM-SEWERS, FINANCE

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

