

********

**Council Bill Number: 98296**
   
**Ordinance Number: 106387**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6658 for the improvement of 21st Ave. S.W. from S.W. Alaska St. to approximately 600 feet northerly there of and from approximately 600 feet southerly of S.W. Genesee St. to S.w. Genesee St; and certain other avenues, streets and an easement; by constructing sanitary sewers together with the necessary appurtenances, and otherwise improving the same; under Ordinance 104715 as amended by Ordinance No. 105811, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 18, 1977
   
**Vote:** 7-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 25, 1977
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 25, 1977
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 4, 1977
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** LARKIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ASSESSMENT, FUNDS, SANITARY-SEWERS, CONSTRUCTION, NORTH-DELRIDGE, WEST-SEATTLE

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 104715, 105811

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

