

********

**Council Bill Number: 98335**
   
**Ordinance Number: 106419**
********

 AN ORDINANCE providing for the improvement of 55th Ave. S. from approximately 20 feet north of S. Prentice St. to S. Ryan St. and from approximately 500 feet south of Renton Ave. S. to Renton Ave. S.; and certain other streets, alleys, and easements; by constructing sanitary sewers and otherwise improving the same; all in accordance with Res. No. 25457 of the City Council of the City of Seattle, creating a Local Improvement District therefor, and providing that payment for said improvement be made by special assessments upon property in said district payable by the mode of installment notes.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 2, 1977
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 9, 1977
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 9, 1977
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 18, 1977
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** LARKIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, SANITARY-SEWERS, RAINIER-BEACH, RAINIER-VALLEY, ASSESSMENT, CONSTRUCTION

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 25457

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

