

********

**Council Bill Number: 98403**
   
**Ordinance Number: 106484**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6669 for the improvement of tillicum Rd. S.W. Cloverdale St. to 46th Ave. S.W.; and certain other streets, avenues and an alley; by constructing watermains together with fire hydrants and the necessary appurtenances; under Ord. No. 105446, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said Roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 31, 1977
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 7, 1977
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 7, 1977
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 16, 1977
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** LARKIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ASSESSMENT, WATER-MAINS, FIRE-HYDRANTS, CONSTRUCTION, FUNDS, FAUNTLEROY, WEST-SEATTLE

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 105446

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

