

********

**Council Bill Number: 98448**
   
**Ordinance Number: 106521**
********

 AN ORDINANCE making an appropriation from the Emergency Fund for necessary preliminary expenses of the Engineering Department in connection with the proposed improvement of Greenwood Ave. N. from N. 84th St. to N. 90th St. and N. 85th St. from Dayton Ave. N. to 1st Ave. N.W. as contemplated by the advisory petition contained in C.F. 285031, providing for reimbursement of The Emergency Fund if a local improvement district if formed, and declaring the Emergency therefor.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 13, 1977
   
**Vote:** 7-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 17, 1977
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 17, 1977
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 31, 1977
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** STREET-CONSTRUCTION, BEAUTIFICATION, SIDEWALKS, LANDSCAPING, STREET-LIGHTING, PEDESTRIANS, TREES, DRAINAGE, LAND-ACQUISITION, RIGHT-OF-WAY, GREENWOOD

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 284031

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

