

********

**Council Bill Number: 98460**
   
**Ordinance Number: 106534**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6577 for the improvement of W. Lee St. from 8th Ave. W. to 5th Ave. W.; and certain other streets, alleys and an easement, by constructing underground utilities lines and a residential street lighting system in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 144, Laws of 1957; and Chapter 119, Laws of 1967; under Ordinance No. 101751, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement fund.

**Status:** Passed Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 20, 1977
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 24, 1977
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 24, 1977
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 6, 1977
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, STREET-CONSTRUCTION, ALLEYS, UNDERGROUND-WIRING, STREET-LIGHTING, LOWER-QUEEN-ANNE, QUEEN-ANNE

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 101751

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

