

********

**Council Bill Number: 98739**
   
**Ordinance Number: 106784**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of L.I.D. No. 6655 for the improvement of S. Monroe St. from 32nd Ave. S. to approximately 60 feet east of 34th Ave. S; and certain other streets, avenues and easements; by the construction of sanitary sewers together with the necessary appurtenances; and otherwise improving the same; providing for the accquisition of the right of way necessary therefor; under Ordinance No. 104492, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of land and other property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 19, 1977
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 27, 1977
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 27, 1977
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 6, 1977
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** WHETZEL
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, SOUTH-BEACON-HILL, STREETS, SANITARY-SEWERS, CONSTRUCTION, ASSESSMENT, FUNDS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 104492

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

