

********

**Council Bill Number: 2866**
   
**Ordinance Number: 16313**
********

 An Ordinance authorizing the Mayor and City Comptroller to issue local improvement bonds for the improvement of Railroad Avenue, from Atlantic Street to Broad Street, et al, in the City of Seattle, by constructing water mains, under Ordinance No. 13900, creating Local Improvement District No. 1264 prescribing the rate of interest thereon and authorizing their delivery to the contractor constructing the improvement; repealing Ordinance No. 15472, approved February 23, 1907, and authorizing the cancellation of bonds in said district issued under authority of said Ordinance No. 15472.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 3, 1907
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 18, 1907
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 18, 1907
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 27, 1907
   
   
**Index Terms:** BONDS, SALES

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 13900. Repealing: Ord 15472

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

