

********

**Council Bill Number: 60760**
   
**Ordinance Number: 69639**
********

 An ordinance authorizing and directing the City Treasurer to cancel the unpaid assessments levied for the improvement of 22nd Avenue Northeast and certain other streets and avenues, by Grading, etc., Local Improvement District No. 2489; and for the improvement of 22nd Avenue Northeast and 22nd Avenue Northeast produced, and certain other streets and avenues, by paving, etc., Local Improvement District No. 3785; and for the improvement of East 53rd Street and certain other streets and avenues, by Grading, etc., Local Improvement District No. 3884; and for the improvement of East 55th Street and certain other streets and avenues by Watermain, etc., Local Improvement District No. 4035; and for the condemnation of 30th Avenue Northeast and certain other streets and avenues, as authorized by Ordinance No. 46794 on portion of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (NW 1/4 of SE 1/4), Section 9, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W. M. (Arb. 7) as hereinafter more fully described, which has been deeded to the city, for Street Purposes.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 27, 1939
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 30, 1939
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 30, 1939
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 20, 1939
   
**Committee:** Finance and Streets and Sewers
   
   
**Index Terms:** ASSESSMENT, UNIVERSITY-DISTRICT

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

