

********

**Council Bill Number: 100148**
   
**Ordinance Number: 108059**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Land Use and Zoning; amending Plat 37W, Page 104 of the Official Zoning Map of The City of Seattle, (Ordinance 86300) to rezone certain property in Blocks 15, 16, 21, 22 and 24, Capitol Hill Addition to The City of Seattle, (Division No. 2); Blocks 25 and 32, Capitol Hill Addition to the City of Seattle, (Division No. 4); Block 38, Capitol Hill Addition Division No. 5 to the City of Seattle Blocks 39, 43, 50, 51, 52 and 53, Capitol Hill Addition to the City of Seattle, Division No. 6; certain lots in Capitol Hill Addition to the City of Seattle, Division No. 7; Blocks 1, 2, 3, and 4 Law's Addition to Seattle; and Blocks 2 and 3, Madison Heights, from Duplex Residence High Density (RD 5000) to Single Family Residence High Density (RS 5000) zone. (Stevens Neighborhood, Areas 3, 4 and 5).

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 12, 1979
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 16, 1979
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 16, 1979
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 26, 1979
   
**Committee:** Urban Development Housing
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** CAPITOL-HILL, REZONES, STEVENS, MULTI-FAMILY-RESIDENTIAL-AREAS, SINGLE-FAMILY-RESIDENTIAL-AREAS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

