

********

**Council Bill Number: 100181**
   
**Ordinance Number: 108105**
********

 AN ORDINANCE approving and confirming the assessment and assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6688 for the improvement of 55th Ave. S. from approximately 20 feet North of S. Prentice St. to S. Ryan St. and from approximately 500 feet south of Renton Ave. S. to Renton Ave. S.; and certain other streets, alleys, and easements; by constructing sanitary sewers, etc.; under Ordinance No. 106419, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against the several lots, tracts, parcels of Land and other Property as shown on said roll, establishing a Local Improvement Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 9, 1979
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 13, 1979
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 13, 1979
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 12, 1979
   
**Committee:** Water & Waste Management
   
**Sponsor:** EXECUTIVE REQUEST
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ASSESSMENT, RAINIER-BEACH, RAINIER-VIEW, STREETS, ALLEYS, SANITARY-SEWERS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

