

********

**Council Bill Number: 100550**
   
**Ordinance Number: 108415**
********

 AN ORDINANCE providing for the improvement of Greenwood Ave. N. from N. 84th St. to N. 87th St.; by constructing and/or reconstructing decorative sidewalks, concrete curbs and gutters, mid-block crosswalk, intersection crosswalk, trees and gratings, decorative street lighting, electrical pole relocation, and pedestrian amenities (including street fixtures and furniture); also, Greenwood Ave. N. from N. 87th St. to N. 90th St; by constructing and/or reconstructing decorative sidewalks and concrete curbs, trees and gratings, lighting improvements, electrical pole relocation, and street fixtures and furnitures; also, N. 85th St. from Dayton ave. N. to 1st Ave. N.W.; by constructing and/or reconstructing sidewalks and curbs, trees and gratings, and lighting improvements; and by providing for the necessary surface drainage and acquisition of any necessary right-of-way and doing such other work as may be necessary in connection therewith; all in accordance with Resolution 25705 and Resolution 26110 of the City Council of the City of Seattle, creating a local improvement district therefor, and providing that payment for said improvement be made by special assessments upon property in siad district payable by the mode of "Payment by Bonds"; and superseding Ordinance 107235.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 30, 1979
   
**Vote:** 7-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 3, 1979
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 3, 1979
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 23, 1979
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** WILLIAMS
   
   
**Index Terms:** GREENWOOD, IMPROVEMENTS, STREETS, STREET-LIGHTING, SIDEWALKS, TREES, UTILITY-POLES, DRAINAGE

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

