

********

**Council Bill Number: 115006**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121597**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of a lease agreement with Seattle Works for space in the West Court Building at Seattle Center.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 20, 2004
   
**Vote:** 8-1
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 1, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 28, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 7, 2004
   
**Committee:** Parks, Neighborhoods and Education
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, LEASES, SEATTLE-CENTER-FACILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**115006

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of a lease agreement with Seattle Works for space in the West Court Building at Seattle Center.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director or her designee is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a lease agreement with Seattle Works, substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as "LEASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SEATTLE WORKS" (Attachment 1) under which Seattle Works shall lease certain space in the West Court Building at Seattle Center for an initial term ending August 31, 2005, with options to extend for three additional two-year periods.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: LEASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SEATTLE WORKS Exhibits to Attachment 1: Exhibit A - Plat Map Exhibit B - Floor Plan Exhibit C - Seattle Center Vision Statement Exhibit D - Seattle Center Campus Rules July 26, 2004 version #1 ATTACHMENT 1

 LEASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SEATTLE WORKS

 THIS LEASE is entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and through the Director of the Seattle Center Department ("Director"), and SEATTLE WORKS, ("Tenant"), a Washington non-profit organization.

 In consideration of their mutual promises, the parties mutually agree as follows:

 1. PREMISES

 A. Grant: The City hereby leases to Tenant those certain premises (the "Premises") consisting of approximately 1,600 square feet, identified as Suite W and 1,200 square feet of "Shared Area", and located on the second floor plus an entry hall on first floor, of the building at 312 First Avenue North, Seattle, WA, commonly referred to as the West Court Building (the "Building"), and legally described as:

 the west 93.06 feet of Lots Nine (9) and Ten(10) and the south 45.08 feet of the west 93.06 feet of lot Eleven (11), Block Thirty One (31), Supplemental Plat of D.T. Denny's Plan of North Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 77, in King County, Washington.

 The site plan depicting the Premises is attached as Exhibit A. The floor plan for the second floor of the Building is attached as Exhibit B.

 BB. Condition: City shall deliver and Tenant accepts the Premises "AS IS." Tenant shall undertake no tenant improvements without first obtaining written permission from the Director, whose permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 C. Permitted Use: Lessee shall use the Premises for office space only. Lessee may use the Premises for other purposes only with the prior, written approval of the Director, whose approval shall be granted or withheld in the Director's sole discretion.

 Lessee shall conduct its activities in a manner that is consistent with the Seattle Center Vision Statement, attached as Exhibit C, and shall comply with the Rules and Regulations regarding the use of the Premises, attached as Exhibit D.

 D. Assumption of Risk: The placement and storage of personal property in the Premises or any other Seattle Center facility shall be the responsibility, and at the sole risk, of the Tenant.

 F. Common Areas: During the term of this Lease, Tenant and its licensees, invitees, customers and employees shall have the non- exclusive right to use the Building and all entrances, lobbies, elevators, stairs, corridors, restrooms and other public areas of the Building (the "Common Areas") in common with City, other Building tenants and their respective licensees, invitees, customers and employees. City shall at all times have exclusive control and management of the Common Areas, except for Tenant's maintenance responsibilities of Section 11, and no diminution thereof shall be deemed a constructive or actual eviction or entitle Tenant to compensation or a reduction or abatement of rent. City, in its discretion, may increase, decrease or change the number, locations and dimensions of any Common Areas and other areas or improvements that are not within the Premises. City reserves the right from time to time (i) to install, use, maintain, repair, relocate and replace pipes, ducts, conduits, wires and appurtenant meters and equipment for service to the Premises or to other parts of the Building in areas above the suspended ceiling surfaces, below the floor surfaces, within the walls and in the central core areas of the Building within the Premises and elsewhere in the Building; (ii) to alter or expand the Building; and (iii) to alter, relocate or substitute any of the Common Areas. A map depicting the Common Areas is included in attachment Exhibit B.

 G. Shared Areas: Tenants occupying Suite E and Suite W shall share the first floor entry, the 2nd floor lobby and the rear entry hallway, restrooms and break room as depicted in Exhibit B and labeled Shared Areas. It is the joint responsibility of both tenants to provide maintenance and janitorial services as defined in Section 11. The Shared Area is approximately 1,200 square feet. Tenant is responsible for rent on approximately 44% or 528 square feet. Section 3. A. Fixed Rent includes this rent amount.

 2. LEASE TERM

 A. Term. This Lease shall be for a term of two (2) years, (the "Term") beginning on September 1, 2003 ("Commencement Date"), and ending on August 31, 2005 ("Expiration Date"), unless extended or sooner terminated as provided in this Lease. Prior to the expiration of the Term of the lease, including any Extended Term, if the spaces and buildings adjacent to KeyArena including the West Court Building are to be significantly altered or demolished as a result of redevelopment of KeyArena, Seattle Center will make a best effort to find alternative office space for Seattle Works on or near the Seattle Center Campus.

 B. Lessee's Opportunity to Extend the Lease Term. Provided that (i) Tenant has not defaulted in any of its obligations under this Lease, or (ii) Tenant has defaulted but has cured all such defaults to the satisfaction of the Director then, Tenant shall have three (3) options (each an "Option") to extend the Term for additional terms of two (2) years each (each an "Option Period"). The Term may be extended every two years for a total of three additional two (2)-year periods (each two year period an "Extended Term") upon the terms and conditions contained in this Lease. In order to be eligible for any Extended Term, Tenant must notify the City, in writing, of its intent to extend the Term not later than six (6) months prior to expiration of the Initial Term. Option rights are personal to Tenant and are not assignable or transferable separate and apart from this Lease, and not later than six (6) months prior to expiration of each Extended Term, if applicable. If Tenant should default in any of its obligations under this Lease after the time Tenant has provided notice of its intent to extend, then any extension right shall become void at the sole discretion of City.

 3. RENT

 A. Fixed Rent. Commencing on the Commencement Date, Tenant shall pay City without deduction, offset, prior notice or demand, in advance on the first day of each month during the Term of this Lease, Fixed Rent for the Premises according to the following schedule:

 Lease Period

 Total Fixed Rent Per Month

 Months 1-16

 Months 17- 24

 $1,950

 $1,950 plus CPI

 Commencing on the first day of January, 2005, and on the first day of each January thereafter until the expiration of the Term of this Lease, Fixed Rent shall be increased each year by the percentage change, if any, in the monthly Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, United States Average for All Items (1982-84=100) published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor ("CPI" from the CPI last published for the preceding year. The base period for each annual adjustment shall be the monthly CPI most recently published prior to the beginning of the preceding year commencing with the monthly CPI most recently published prior to January 1, 2004. If, during any year for which CPI increases apply, there is a decline in the CPI index, then the Fixed Rent during the succeeding Lease Year shall equal the Fixed Rent payable during the immediately preceding year. In the event of any change in the index base (1982-84=100) or other modification of the CPI index, or in the event the CPI is discontinued, the Director shall select a substitute index of comparable statistics on the cost of living for the county in which the Premises is located as shall be computed by an agency of the United States or by a responsible financial periodical or other recognized authority.

 B. Additional Rent. All amounts which Tenant is required to pay to City pursuant to this Lease (other than Fixed Rent) shall constitute additional rent ("Additional Rent") whether or not the same be designated as Additional Rent. Tenant shall perform all its obligations under this Lease at its sole cost and expense, and shall promptly pay to City all Additional Rent. Tenant shall also promptly pay to all third parties any other sums required to be paid by Tenant under this Lease, when the same shall be due and payable and in all events prior to delinquency, without notice or demand, deduction or offset, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Lease.

 C. Time and Manner of Payment. Commencing on the Commencement Date, Tenant shall pay to City without deduction, offset, prior notice or demand, in advance on the first day of each month during the term hereof, Fixed Rent in lawful money of the United States at City's address as set forth in Section 22 of this Lease or as City may from time to time otherwise designate in writing, and Tenant shall pay to City Additional Rent as specified elsewhere in this Lease, but if not so specified, then within ten (10) days after demand. Fixed Rent and Additional Rent for any partial month shall be prorated on a daily basis at the rate of 1/30 of the Fixed Rent or any Rent then due. "Rent" shall mean Fixed Rent, Additional Rent and any other monetary sum required to be paid by Tenant under this Lease.

 D. Place of Payment: All payments shall be delivered to The City of Seattle, Seattle Center Fiscal Services & Accounting, 305 West Harrison Street, Seattle, Washington, 98109, or to such other address as the Director shall specify by notice to Lessee.

 4. LATE CHARGE; INTEREST

 If Tenant fails to pay any Fixed Rent or Additional Rent due under this Lease within five (5) days after the due date, a service charge of Fifty Dollars ($50.00), or such larger sum as may be established by ordinance, shall be assessed for each month or portion of a month that the delinquency continues. Such assessment(s) is/are immediately due and payable. In addition, interest on such delinquent amount(s) shall accrue at the rate of one and one-half percent (1 1/2 %) or the maximum legal rate in Washington, whichever is lower, per month from the date due until paid. In the event any check for payment is returned for insufficient funds, Tenant shall pay an administrative charge of $20.00. If Tenant defaults in making any payment of Fixed Rent or Additional Rent or other sums due, City shall have the right to require that subsequent Fixed Rent or Additional Rent or other sums payments be made by cashiers or certified check.

 5. WAIVER; INDEMNIFICATION

 A. Tenant's Indemnification. Except as otherwise provided in this section, Tenant shall indemnify, defend (using legal counsel acceptable to City) and save City, its officers, agents, and employees harmless from any and all claims, suits, losses, damages, fines, penalties, liabilities and expenses arising out of or in connection with (i) Tenant's occupation, use or improvement of the Premises or Building, or that of any of its officers, employees, agents, invitees, licensees, guests, or contractors, or (ii) Tenant's breach of its obligations hereunder or violation of law, or (iii) any act or omission of Tenant or any subtenant, licensee, assignee, or concessionaire of Tenant, or of any officer, agent, employee, guest, or invitee of any of the same in or about the Premises or Building. Tenant agrees that the foregoing indemnity specifically covers actions brought by its own employees. The foregoing indemnity is specifically and expressly intended to constitute a waiver of Tenant's immunity under Washington's Industrial Insurance Act, RCW Title 51, as to the City only, and shall survive the termination or expiration of this Lease. Tenant shall promptly notify City of casualties or accidents occurring in or about the Premises or Building. CITY AND TENANT ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE INDEMNIFICATION PROVISIONS OF THIS LEASE WERE SPECIFICALLY NEGOTIATED AND AGREED UPON BY THEM.

 B. Release of Claims. Tenant hereby waives and releases all claims against City for any losses or other damages sustained by Tenant resulting from any accident or occurrence in or upon the Premises or Building, including but not limited to any defect in or failure of building equipment; any failure to make repairs; any defect, failure, surge in, or interruption of building facilities or services; broken glass; water leakage; the collapse of any building component; or any act or omission of any other occupants of the building.

 C. Limitation of Lessee's Indemnification. In compliance with RCW 4.24.115 as in effect on the date of this Lease, all provisions of this Lease pursuant to which City or Tenant (the "Indemnitor") agrees to indemnify the other (the "Indemnitee") against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property relative to the construction, alteration, repair, addition to, subtraction from, improvement to, or maintenance of, any building, road, or other structure, project, development, or improvement attached to real estate, including the building, (i) shall not apply to damages caused by or resulting from the sole negligence of the Indemnitee, its agents or employees, and (ii) to the extent caused by or resulting from the concurrent negligence of (a) the Indemnitee or the Indemnitee's agents or employees, and (b) the Indemnitor or the Indemnitor's agents or employees, shall apply only to the extent of the Indemnitor's negligence; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, the limitations on indemnity set forth in this section shall automatically and without further act by either City or Tenant be deemed amended so as to remove any of the restrictions contained in this section no longer required by then applicable law.

 6. INSURANCE

 The Tenant shall secure and maintain in full force and effect at all times during the Term of this Lease, at no expense to City, a policy or policies of insurance as enumerated below.

 A. A policy of Commercial General Liability Insurance, written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form (CG 00 01) or equivalent, including all the usual coverages known as:

 - Premises/Operations Liability

 - Products/Completed Operations

 - Personal/Advertising Injury

 - Contractual Liability

 - Independent Contractors Liability

 - Stop Gap/Employers Contingent Liability

 - Liquor Liability/Host Liquor Liability (as applicable)

 - Fire Damage Legal Liability

 - Elevator & Hoist Liability (as applicable)

 Such policy (ies) must provide the following minimum limit:

Bodily Injury and Property Damage -

 $ 2,000,000 General Aggregate

 $ 2,000,000 Products & Completed Operations Aggregate

 $ 1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury

 $ 1,000,000 Each Occurrence

 $ 100,000 Fire Damage

Stop Gap Employers Liability

 $ 1,000,000 Each Accident

 $ 1,000,000 Disease - Policy Limit

 $1,000,000 Disease - Each Employee

 Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed and is subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager. The cost of any claim payments falling within the deductible shall be the responsibility of the Tenant

 B. A policy of Worker's Compensation. As respects Workers' Compensation insurance in the state of Washington, the Tenant shall secure its liability for industrial injury to its employees in accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington. If the Tenant is qualified as a self-insurer in accordance with Chapter 51.14 of the Revised Code of Washington, Tenant shall so certify by providing a copy of the state Certificate of Self- Insurance, and setting forth the limits of any policy of excess insurance covering its employees.

 C. A policy of Property Insurance covering its furniture, fixtures, equipment and inventory and all improvements which it makes to the Premises in an amount equal to replacement cost thereof, against (a) loss from the perils of fire, and other risks of direct physical loss, not less broad than provided by the insurance industry standard "Causes of Loss - Special Form (CP 10 30), (b) Loss or damage from water damage, or sprinkler systems now or hereafter installed in on the premises; (c) Loss or damage by explosion of steam boilers, pressure vessels, oil or gasoline storage; (d) Business Interruption or Extra Expense, with sufficient coverage to provide for the payment of rent and other fixed costs during any interruption of Lessee's business because of fire or other cause.

 D. Additional Insured and Changes of Coverage and Limits: Such insurance, as provided under items (1), (2) and (4) above, shall be endorsed to include the City, its officers, elected officials, employees, agents and volunteers as additional insured, and shall not be reduced or canceled without forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City. In addition, Tenant's insurance shall be primary, as respects the City, and any other insurance maintained by the City shall be excess and not contributing insurance with the Tenant's insurance.

 E. Coverage and/or limits may be altered or increased as necessary, to reflect type of or exposure to risk. City shall have the right to periodically review the appropriateness of such limits in view of inflation and/or changing industry conditions and to require an increase in such limits upon ninety (90) days prior written notice.

 F. Evidence of Insurance: The following documents must be provided as evidence of insurance coverage:

 * A copy of the policy's declarations pages, showing the Insuring Company, policy effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements.

 * A copy of the endorsement naming The City as an Additional Insured, showing the policy number, and signed by an authorized representative of the insurance company on Form CG2026 (ISO) or equivalent.

 * A copy of the "Endorsements Form List" to the policy or policies showing endorsements issued on the policy, and including any company- specific or manuscript endorsements.

 * A copy of an endorsement stating that the coverages provided by this policy to the City or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing at least forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City.

 * A copy of A "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests" clause, Indicating essentially that, except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, this insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought (Commercial General Liability & Business Automobile Liability Insurance).

 G. All policies shall be subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager as to company (must be rated A-: VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines broker), form and coverage, and primary to all other insurance.

 H. If Tenant fails to maintain such insurance, City may do so, and Tenant shall reimburse City for the full expense thereof upon demand. Tenant shall not keep or use in or about the Premises any article, which is prohibited by City's insurance policy. Tenant shall pay immediately any increase in City's premiums for insurance during the term of this Lease that results from Tenant's use of the Premises.

 I. Waiver of Subrogation. Neither City nor Tenant shall be liable to the other party or to any insurance company (by way of subrogation or otherwise) insuring the other party for any loss or damage to any building, structure or tangible personal property of the other occurring in or about the Premises or Building, even though such loss or damage might have been occasioned by the negligence of such party, its' agents or employees, if such loss or damage is covered by insurance benefiting the party suffering such loss or damage or was required under the terms of this Lease to be covered by insurance procured by the party suffering the loss.

 J. Self-Insurance: Should Tenant be self-insured, under items (1) or (2) above, a letter from the Corporate Risk Manager, or appropriate Finance Officer, is acceptable - stipulating if actuarially funded and fund limits; plus any excess declaration pages to meet the contract requirements. Further, this letter should advise how Tenant would protect and defend the City of Seattle as an Additional Insured in their Self-Insured layer, and include claims handling directions in the event of a claim.

 7. COVENANTS REGARDING OPERATION OF TENANT'S BUSINESS

 A. No Nuisances or Objectionable Activity: Tenant shall not permit any noise, odor, dust, vibration or similar substance or condition that the Director determines to be excessive or objectionable, to remain on or be emitted from the Premises; shall not interfere with access to or from the Premises or the Seattle Center or any part thereof, or with the traffic thereon, or with any Seattle Center facility, business, activity or utility on or off Seattle Center grounds. Tenant shall not create any nuisance in or adjacent to the Premises and shall not do anything on the Premises that will create a danger to life or limb.

 B. Fire Extinguisher Within Premises: During the Term (which includes any Option Period(s the Tenant shall secure, maintain and install in the Premises, in a prominent location, a 2A-10BC class fire extinguisher or an alternative approved by the Fire Marshall, and Tenant shall instruct all of its employees regarding its appropriate use. Such fire extinguisher shall be recharged not less than once a year and immediately following any use.

 C. Objectionable Merchandise or Material: Notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease, the Tenant shall not display or offer for sale or rent, or allow to be displayed or offered for sale or rent, on the Premises, any merchandise or other material that the Director, in the exercise of such official's sole discretion, determines is unsafe; that portrays the City or Seattle Center or any aspect thereof in an incorrect, misleading, or unfavorable manner; that depicts or suggests in words, symbols, illustrations, or other forms, any act of violence, or any lewd, immoral, or obscene activity; that is inconsistent with the image of a first-class, family-oriented retail and entertainment development, or is otherwise inappropriate for a family-oriented recreation and entertainment facility such as Seattle Center; or that may create a substantial litter or other maintenance problem at Seattle Center.

 D. Core and Key Charge: Seattle Center will provide three keys for the entry locks at no charge or deposit. Additional keys must be paid for at the posted rate determined by the department.. All keys must be returned at the end of the lease. No refunds will be made for any keys. If exterior keys are lost by Lessee, Seattle Center will re-core the exterior locks and provide new keys for all Tenants sharing the exterior door at the cost of Lessee at the posted rate. All locks and keys must be ordered through and provided by Seattle Center.

 8. UTILITY SERVICES

 A. Service provided by City:

 City shall furnish the Premises with water, sewer, gas, and refuse pick up, and electricity for office use, including lighting and low power usage (110 volt) for office machines, and elevator services. City shall furnish the Premises with heat and existing air conditioning services.

 B. Tenant's Share of Cost of Service Provided by City. Beginning on January 1, 2004 the City may review the cost to City of providing Tenant's Share of these Section 8.A. services. Tenant's Share is the percentage determined by dividing the Rentable Area of the Premises by the Rentable Area of the Building. The Rentable Area of the Building, for purposes of this Lease, shall be assumed to be and remain 9,660 square feet. On January 1, 2004 and any year thereafter, the City reserves the right to notify Tenant of City's estimate of Tenant's Share of these Section 8.A. costs for the ensuing prior year to the extent such costs exceed that of the basis year of expenses of 2002 plus applicable CPI as defined in Section 3. A. If so notified, the following shall apply:

 Tenant shall pay as an Additional Rent one-twelfth (1/12th) of Tenant's Share of such excess in advance on the first day of each month of the ensuing and each succeeding year. Following the end of each year, City will compute Tenant's Share due under this section for such year based on actual costs and, if Tenant's Share for such year is greater than the amount already paid by Tenant for such year, Tenant shall pay City the deficiency within ten (10) days after Tenant's receipt of an invoice therefor. If the total amount paid by Tenant for a year exceeds Tenant's Share, then City shall credit such excess to the payment of Additional Rent thereafter coming due; provided, however, upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Lease Term, if Tenant has otherwise complied with all other terms and conditions of this Lease, City shall refund such excess to Tenant. If during a year City obtains information regarding Section 8.A. costs that alters its prior estimates, City may adjust the amount due from Tenant under this section during the balance of that year to reflect such new information by giving Tenant notice thereof.

 C. Tenant's Responsibility. Tenant shall be solely responsible for and shall promptly pay when due all charges for telephone and all other utilities that are separately metered and supplied to the Premises.

 D. Interruption: City shall not be liable for any loss, injury or damage to person or property caused by or resulting from any variation, interruption or failure of services due to any cause whatsoever, including, but not limited to, electrical surges, or from failure to make any repairs or perform any maintenance. No temporary interruption or failure of such services incident to the making of repairs, alterations or improvements or due to accident, strike or conditions or events beyond City's reasonable control shall be deemed an eviction of Tenant or to relieve Tenant from any of Tenant's obligations hereunder or to give Tenant a right of action against City for damages. City has no obligation to provide emergency or backup power to Tenant. The provision of emergency or backup power to the Premises or to enable the equipment therein to properly function shall be the sole responsibility of Tenant.

 E. Special Services and Facilities Subject to Prior Director's Approval, and at Tenant's Cost: Tenant, directly or through a third party, may install, secure, maintain and repair, at no expense to the City, any utility service related to Tenant's operations and its use of the Premises that is not provided or maintained by the City; however, any utility or waste disposal facility, item of equipment, or service beyond that provided to the Premises by the City, must be installed only in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Director and other appropriate City officials, in writing, in advance of such installation. Lessee shall not install on the Premises any fixture, furnishing, or trade equipment that exceeds the capacity of any utility or waste facility for such location. Tenant shall pay, before delinquency, all fees and charges for the installation, change, and relocation of any point or means of service by any utility or waste line or system.

 9. PARKING

 A. As of the commencement date of this Lease, the Seattle Center has a "Cooperative Parking Status" under Title 23 of the Seattle Municipal Code. Accordingly, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, the City does not provide any parking that is specifically for or associated with the Premises (including but not limited to that required by or for Tenant's staff, suppliers or customers), and whatever general, non-reserved parking the City makes available for Seattle Center tenants and their respective staffs, suppliers, and customers shall be shared on a first-come, first-served basis.

 B. Two parking stalls will be reserved for Tenant in the lot adjacent to the Premises at the current parking rates as published by Seattle Center Transportation Unit. Parking arrangements and payments will be made through the Transportation Unit directly.

 10. SIGNAGE, ADVERTISING & PUBLICITY

 A. Prohibited Promotion & Other Material; Removal of Same: Tenant shall not display, post, or distribute any sign, symbol, advertising of any nature, or any printed material (including but not limited to posters) on any part of the Seattle Center, including but not limited to the Premises, except after receiving written approval therefor from the Director, whose approval shall be given or withheld in his/her sole discretion; and may undertake such activity only in or on location(s) approved by the Director. On or before the expiration or termination date of this Lease, whichever is earlier, or in the case of unauthorized material, on or before the date specified in the Director's notice to remove the same, Tenant shall remove, at no expense to the City, all such signs, symbols, advertising and printed material; and correct any unsightly condition, and repair any damage or injury to City property caused by such signs, symbols, advertising and printed material, and the removal thereof. In the event any such unauthorized material is not removed from City property by the date required herein, such material may be treated as Tenant property subject to removal and storage pursuant to Section 21 hereof.

 Any approved signs or other advertising matter shall be in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and rules.

 B. Use of Photos & Similar Materials: Each party hereto may make photographs, video tapes, and motion pictures of the Premises and the activity, people, displays and exhibits thereon; Provided, that in the event such visual material is to be used for commercial advertising purposes, prior to making the same, Tenant shall obtain the written approval of the Director for such use, which approval may be conditioned upon, among other things, the payment by the Tenant to the City of additional consideration; and prior to the use of any such photography, video tape, or motion picture, a written release shall be obtained from every individual identifiable in the same.

 11. MAINTENANCE, CLEANING & REPAIR

 A. City Responsibilities: The City shall maintain, clean and repair the exterior and structural aspects of the Building, but not the interior areas of the Building. The City's maintenance, cleaning and repairing shall be to the ordinary standard of work performed on other, major use facilities at Seattle Center, to keep the same in good condition, normal wear and tear and damage and destruction by fire or other extraordinary casualty excepted. In connection therewith, the City shall remove garbage and other refuse from locations designated by the Director for such purpose, and repair potable water, sewer, and storm water lines connecting with similar lines on the Premises. In undertaking such maintenance, the City shall make a good faith effort to not unreasonably interfere with Tenant's business on the Premises. Tenant waives all claims for damages, including for any loss of business, resulting from City maintenance, cleaning and repair work except to the extent of City gross negligence. There shall be no abatement or reduction of rent arising by reason of City's making of any repairs, alterations, or improvements.

 B. Tenant's Responsibilities: Tenant, at its own cost and expense, shall at all times keep the Premises and Common Areas, including all of Tenant's improvements, alterations, and additions thereto, and Tenant's personal property, in good repair and in a serviceable and sanitary condition. Notwithstanding Section 11.A., Tenant's responsibilities include repairing all damage done to the Premises, Common Areas, and the Building by Tenant or any of Tenant's officers, contractors, agents, invitees, licensees or employees. In carrying out Tenant's responsibilities under this section, Tenant, among other things, shall:

 (1) Clean the interior glass in the windows and doors, on the Premises at least once a month, and replace any such glass immediately if it should crack or break

 (2) Keep all drainage pipes free and open;

 (3) Have all plumbing and plumbing fixtures inspected at least once every year; repair all damage resulting from any plumbing fixture, any equipment connected to plumbing, or pipe not installed in the Premises by the City or caused by Tenant's failure to keep such fixture or pipe in good operating condition; and in the event of any failure by Tenant to satisfy this repair obligation within four (4) hours after receipt of notice from the Director of any such damage, the City reserves the right to undertake such repair, the cost of which shall be reimbursed by the Tenant;.

 (4) In a timely and careful manner, periodically remove all debris generated by or peculiar to the Lessee's operations on the Premises and place in an area designated by the Director;

 (5) Tenant shall arrange and pay all expense associated with the provision of janitorial and cleaning services in the Premises. City will not provide these services.

 (6) Tenant shall arrange and pay all expense associated with the provision of janitorial and cleaning services in the Common Areas. Tenant may seek reimbursement from other second floor Tenants. City will not provide these services.

 In the event the Tenant fails to satisfy, in a timely manner after its receipt of notice from the Director of the need for such work, any of the obligations specified in this Section, the City reserves the right (but shall have no obligation) to undertake such work. City shall have the right to enter the Premises for such purposes. In the event the City undertakes such work for the Tenant pursuant to this Section, the Tenant shall promptly pay the City, upon receipt of a written statement, the actual expenses incurred by the City in undertaking such work (including but not limited to Seattle Center labor and project management) plus an administrative charge of $250.00.

 12. CITY ACCESS TO, & INSPECTION, REPAIR & IMPROVEMENT OF PREMISES & OTHER PROPERTY

 A. Access to Premises: The Tenant shall provide the City and its contractors and consultants, their subcontractors, sub consultants and agents with access to the Premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same and to make any inspection, repair or improvement deemed necessary by the Director, but this right of access shall not impose on the City any obligation to make any repair, alteration, addition, or improvement except as specifically provided herein.

 B. Permitted Interference With Tenant's Operations: In inspecting, and in making repairs, alterations, additions, and improvements, the City may erect barricades and scaffolding in and outside of the Premises, and may otherwise interfere with the conduct of the Tenant's business and operations where such action is reasonably required by the nature of the City's work; and such interference shall not be deemed to be a breach or default under this Lease.

 C. Suspension of Tenant's Operations and Obligation to Pay Monthly Base Rent: In the event such inspection, repair, alteration, addition, or improvement work necessitates the temporary suspension of Tenant's business or operations in, on, or from the Premises, the Director shall notify the Tenant of such necessity and the anticipated beginning and ending dates of such suspension. Monthly Fixed Rent due to City pursuant to this Lease shall be prorated during each month in which the Tenant's business or operations are required by City to be suspended pursuant to this section, and the Tenant shall have no obligation to pay such prorated rent during the period that the Tenant's business or operations are suspended; such cancellation of the obligation to pay the prorated Monthly Fixed Rent shall constitute the totality of relief available, and Tenant waives all claims for damages and for any injury to and interference with its operations or business and losses occasioned by any such suspension.

 D. City's Retention & Use of Key to Premises: Tenant shall provide the Director with a key with which to unlock all of the doors in, upon, and about the Premises, excluding Tenant's vaults, safes, and files, for each of the aforesaid purposes. The City shall have the right to use any and all means that the Director deems proper to open said doors in an emergency, in order to obtain entry to the Premises, without liability to Tenant except for any failure to exercise due care for Tenant's property. Any entry to the Premises obtained by the City by any of said means, or otherwise, shall not be construed or deemed to be an eviction of Tenant or a forcible or unlawful entry into, or a detainer of, the Premises or any portion thereof.

 13. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 A. General Requirements: Tenant, at no cost to the City, shall perform and comply with all applicable, current and future laws of the United States; the State of Washington; the Charter and Municipal Code of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof. Tenant shall use its best efforts to ensure that every person it admits to the Premises similarly performs and complies with the same. Whenever Tenant or its authorized representative is informed of any violation of any such law, ordinance, rule, regulation, license, permit, or authorization committed by it or any person admitted to the Premises, Tenant shall immediately desist from and/or prevent or correct such violation.

 B. Licenses, & Other Authorizations: Tenant shall obtain and maintain all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 C. Taxes: The Tenant shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities on or occupancy of the Premises, including but not limited to taxes arising out of the activity or business conducted on the Premises; taxes levied on its property, equipment and improvements on the Premises; and taxes on Lessee's interest in this Lease and any leasehold interest deemed to have been created thereby under RCW Ch. 82.29A; and in the event the State of Washington makes any demand upon the City for payment of leasehold excise taxes resulting from the Tenant's occupancy of the Premises or withholds funds due to the City to enforce collections of leasehold excise taxes, Tenant shall remit the taxes demanded together with any interest and penalties associated therewith or, at no expense to the City, contest such collection action and indemnify the City for all sums expended by, or withheld by the State of Washington from the City in connection with such taxation.

 D. Nondiscrimination: Tenant shall comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle, including the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), notably SMC 20.44, and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers. SMC 20.44.040 is incorporated into this Lease by reference.

 E. Recycling of Waste Materials: Tenant, at no cost to the City, shall collect, sort and separate into such categories as may be legally required, all solid waste products on the Premises, and recycle all such products that are locally accepted for recycling. Each separately sorted category of waste products shall be placed in separate receptacles reasonably approved by the City, which receptacles shall be dumped or removed from the Seattle Center at such minimum frequency as is specified by the Director. The City reserves the right to refuse to collect or accept from Tenant any waste product that is not sorted and separated as required by law, ordinance, rule or regulation, and to require Tenant to arrange for the collection of the same at Tenant's sole cost and expense using a contractor satisfactory to the City. Tenant shall pay all costs, fines, penalties, and damages that may be imposed on City or Tenant as a consequence of Tenant's failure to comply with the provisions of this subsection.

 14. ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS

 Tenant shall not, without City's prior written consent, keep on or about the Premises or Building any substance designated as, or containing any component now or hereafter designated as hazardous, dangerous, toxic or harmful and/or subject to regulation under any federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance ("Hazardous Substances"), except customary office supplies in normal quantities handled in compliance with applicable laws. With respect to any Hazardous Substances stored with City's consent, Tenant shall promptly, timely and completely comply with all governmental requirements for reporting and record keeping; submit to City true and correct copies of all reports, manifests and identification numbers at the same time as they are required to be and/or are submitted to the appropriate governmental authorities; within five (5) days after City's request therefor, provide evidence satisfactory to City of Tenant's compliance with all applicable governmental rules, regulations and requirements; and comply with all governmental rules, regulations and requirements regarding the proper and lawful use, sale, transportation, generation, treatment and disposal of Hazardous Substances. Tenant shall provide the Director with the Tenant's USEPA Waste Generator Number (if any), and with a copy of every Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), Generator Annual Dangerous Waste Report, environmentally related regulatory permit or approval (including every revision or renewal thereof) and any correspondence the Tenant receives from, or provides to, any governmental unit or agency in connection with Tenant's handling of Hazardous Substances or the presence, or possible presence, of any Hazardous Substance on or about the Premises.

 If Tenant violates any of the terms of this section concerning the presence or use of Hazardous Substances or the handling or storing of hazardous wastes, Tenant shall promptly take such action as is necessary to mitigate and correct the violation. If Tenant does not act in a prudent and prompt manner, the City reserves the right, but not the obligation, to act in place of Tenant (for which purpose Tenant hereby appoints the City as its agent), to come onto the Premises and to take such action as the City deems necessary to ensure compliance or to mitigate the violation. If the Director has a reasonable belief that Tenant is in violation of any law or regulation, or that any action or inaction of Tenant presents a threat of violation or a threat of damage to the Premises, the City reserves the right to enter onto the Premises and take such corrective or mitigating action as the Director deems necessary. All costs and expenses incurred by the City in connection with any such action shall become immediately due and payable as Additional Rent by Tenant upon presentation of an invoice therefor.

 Any and all costs and expenses incurred by City and associated with City's inspections of the Premises and City's monitoring of Tenant's compliance with this Section 14, including City's attorneys' fees and costs, shall be Additional Rent and shall be due and payable to City within ten (10) days after City's demand therefore. Tenant shall be fully and completely liable to City for any and all cleanup costs and expenses and any and all other charges, expenses, fees, fines, penalties (both, civil and criminal) and costs imposed with respect to Tenant's use, disposal, transportation, generation and/or sale of Hazardous Substances in or about the Premises or Building. In addition to all other indemnity provisions of this Lease, Tenant shall indemnify, defend, and hold City harmless from any and all costs, fees, penalties, charges and expenses, claims, suits, and liabilities assessed against, or imposed upon City, including without limitation cleanup or other remedial costs (and including attorneys' fees, costs and all other reasonable litigation expenses when incurred and whether incurred in defense of actual litigation or in reasonable anticipation of litigation) as a result of Tenant's use, storage, disposal, transportation, generation and/or sale of Hazardous Substances. This indemnity shall survive termination or expiration of this Lease.

 15. CITY'S CONTROL OF BUILDINGS, GROUNDS & ACTIVITIES

 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease, the City, without liability of any kind, may:

 A. Physical Appearance: Increase, reduce or change, in any manner and any extent whatsoever, the number, appearance, dimensions, and location of any and every Seattle Center walkway, landscaping element, parking, service area, and building as desired by the City;

 B. Traffic & Parking Regulation: Regulate all traffic within and adjacent to the Seattle Center; and restrict or prohibit the parking on City-owned or leased property of motor vehicles owned or operated by Tenant or any of its officers, employees, agents, suppliers, and invitees;

 C. Admission Charges: Impose a reasonable charge for admission to the Seattle Center and any of the facilities therein, including parking facilities;

 D. Events: Erect, display and remove promotional exhibits and materials and permit special events on the Seattle Center grounds and in or at any or every building and facility thereof;

 E. Rules & Regulations: Promulgate, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations regarding the use and occupancy of any area of Seattle Center;

 F. Hours of Operation: Determine the days and hours that the Seattle Center and the various business operations therein will be open to the public;

 G. Other Businesses & Operations: Change the size, number, type and identity of other businesses and operations being conducted or undertaken at Seattle Center; and authorize other lessees, licensees, and the sponsors of special events at Seattle Center, directly or indirectly, to offer for sale food and beverages, and for sale or rent any merchandise and service, including any that may be identical or similar to that offered by the Tenant;

 H. Signage: Place "For Rent" or similar signs in the Premises for thirty (30) days prior to the expiration or termination date of this Lease, whichever is earlier.

 I. Interference: Interfere with light, air or view, or the Tenant's operations or use and occupancy of the Premises, either in connection with or as a result of operations by or for City in the construction of any public work or its subsequent use and occupancy, or the repair and maintenance of any City facility or improvement. The City will make a good faith effort, however, to minimize such interference to the extent it is reasonably economical for the City to do so.

 16. ASSIGNMENTS, SUBLEASES & OTHER INTEREST TRANSFERS

 A. Director's Prior Written Consent Required: Tenant shall not assign, mortgage, or encumber, or otherwise transfer this Lease or sublet the whole or any part of the Premises without the prior written consent of the Director, whose consent may be withheld in the Director's sole discretion. In no event shall an assignment, sublease, or other transfer of the Lease relieve Tenant of any of its obligations under this Lease. Consent to any particular assignment, subletting, or transfer shall not operate as a waiver of the necessity for consent to any subsequent assignment, subletting or transfer.

 B. Transferee's Obligations; Documentation: As a condition of the Director's approval of an assignment or transfer, any potential assignee or transferee otherwise acceptable to the Director shall assume, in writing, all of Tenant's obligations under the Lease; and Tenant and such assignee or transferee, shall agree, in writing, to be jointly and severally liable for the performance of all of Tenant's obligations under this Lease. As a condition of the Director's approval of any sub lessee otherwise acceptable to the Director, such subtenant shall assume, in writing, all of Tenant's obligations under this Lease as to the subleased portion of the Premises; and Tenant and such subtenant shall agree, in writing, to be jointly and severally liable with Tenant for Rent and performance of all of the terms, covenants, and conditions of such approved sublease. Tenant and any assignee, sub lessee, or transferee shall remain jointly and severally liable regardless of any (i) agreement that modifies any of the rights or obligations of the parties to this Lease; (ii) stipulation that extends the time within which an obligation under this Lease is to be performed; (iii) waiver of the performance of any obligation under this Lease; or (iv) failure to enforce any obligation under this Lease.

 Every proposed sublease, assignment, or other interest-transferring agreement shall be submitted to the Director for review and approval or disapproval after execution by the proposed subtenant, assignee, or other transferee, and not less than fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the commencement date of the proposed subtenant's, assignee's, or transferee's intended use of any portion of the Premises under such agreement or the assumption of any right or interest in any portion of the Premises or this Lease. Every sublease shall require the subtenant to submit to the Director and Tenant not more than ten (10) days after the end of each month during the term of its sublease and the month after the expiration or earlier termination of such sublease, a written statement identifying the amount of gross receipts generated by such subtenant on and from the portion of the Premises used and occupied by such subtenant during the immediately preceding month.

 C. Change of Tenant's Organizational Structure or Ownership Constitutes Assignment: If Tenant is a corporation, the merger, consolidation, or liquidation of the Tenant or any change in the ownership of or power to vote thirty-three and one-third percent (331/3) or more of its capital stock, as held as of the date of execution of this Lease, shall be deemed an assignment.

 D. Tenant's Authorization to Use Premises Constitutes Assignment or Sublease: If Tenant in any manner permits anyone to occupy all or any portion of the Premises for any purpose including but not limited to the conduct of any business or other activity, whether or not business-related, not within the intent of this Lease or any sublease, such permission shall be deemed an assignment or sublease, as deemed appropriate by the Director.

 17. EXCUSE & SUSPENSION OF OBLIGATIONS (FORCE MAJEURE)

 If a party's performance (other than any monetary obligations) under this Lease is prevented by an unforeseeable act of nature; war or war- like operations; civil commotion; riot; labor dispute including a strike, lockout, or walkout; sabotage; Federal or State regulation or control; or other condition beyond the reasonable control of such party, then performance of such affected obligation shall be suspended (excluding, however, any monetary obligations), but only for the duration of such condition. The existence of more than one (1) such condition on a given day shall result in only a one (1) day extension.

 18. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION

 A. Report of Damage or Destruction: The Tenant shall submit a written report to the Director, in care of the Contracts and Concessions Office, regarding the circumstances of any damage to the Premises or any of the Tenant's improvements thereto, within twenty- four (24) hours after its discovery.

 B. Rent Obligation in Event of Damage or Destruction: In the event the Premises are destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty not occasioned by an act or omission of the Tenant or any of its officers, employees, contractors, agents, invitees, or guests, and such destruction or damage is so extensive as to render such Premises and improvements unusable (either because of the need to rebuild or to clean and refurbish the same) and the Tenant has given timely notice of such destruction or damage as provided by this section, Tenant's obligation to pay rent shall be abated until the date that such Premises and improvements are made usable or should have been made usable had the Tenant diligently prosecuted such repair, rebuilding, and restoration work. The unusability of the Premises and the duration of any such rent abatement shall be reasonably determined by the Director and confirmed by one or more notices to Tenant. In the event only a portion of the Premises is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty not occasioned by an act or omission of Tenant or any of its officers, employees, contractors, agents, invitees, or guests but the remainder of such Premises and improvements remains usable, as reasonably determined by the Director, and Tenant has given timely notice of such destruction or damage as provided by this section, Tenant shall pay a reduced amount of rent that is proportionate to the extent of the Premises that remains usable for the purposes identified in Section I hereof, which reduced rent amount shall be reasonably determined by the Director and identified by notice to Tenant, and paid by Tenant through the date reasonably specified by the Director in such notice or the later date specified in any subsequent notice

 C. Rebuilding, Repair & Restoration: In the event that insurance proceeds payable to the City will provide sufficient funds to enable the City to rebuild, repair and restore the Premises after their damage or destruction, and neither Tenant nor the City elects to terminate this Lease pursuant to this section, the City shall diligently prosecute such rebuilding, repair, and restoration. Tenant shall replace or repair in a timely manner and at no cost or expense to the City, all damaged or destroyed personal property that, prior to such damage or destruction, had been located on the Premises, and all improvements that Tenant made to the Premises, unless otherwise permitted by the Director. Upon the rebuilding, repair and reconstruction of the Premises, Tenant shall immediately re-occupy the whole of the Premises. The rent abatement or reduction provided pursuant to this section shall be discontinued and the full Fixed Rent and Additional Rent shall again be due and payable from and after the date specified in the notice given by the Director. The City shall not be liable to Tenant for damages, compensation or any other sum for inconvenience, loss of business, or disruption arising from any repair to or restoration of any portion of the Premises or the Building in which the Premises are located.

 D. Termination Rights in Event of Damage or Destruction:

By Tenant: Notwithstanding any other provision in this Lease to the contrary, in the event that fifty percent (50%) or more of the Premises is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty not occasioned by an act or omission of Tenant, its officers, employees, contractors, agents, invitees, or guests, Tenant may terminate this Lease by providing notice thereof to the Director.

By City: Notwithstanding any other provision in this Lease to the contrary, in the event that fifty percent (50%) of the Premises is destroyed or is so damaged by fire or other casualty as to be untenantable or unusable, or if the City desires to discontinue Tenant's operations because of substantial destruction of the Premises, the Building, or other part of Seattle Center, regardless of whether the Premises are destroyed, damaged, or otherwise, the City may terminate this Lease by providing prior written notice thereof to Tenant.

 Notice of Termination

: Any notice of termination pursuant to this section shall be provided within sixty (60) days after the occurrence of the damage or destruction and shall specify the effective date of such termination.

 19. DEFAULT & BREACH

 A. Definition: If Tenant violates or breaches or fails to keep or perform any covenant, term or condition of this Lease, or if Tenant files or is the subject of a petition in bankruptcy, or if a trustee or receiver is appointed for Tenant's assets or if Tenant makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or if Tenant is adjudicated insolvent, Tenant shall be deemed in default hereunder (a "Default").

 B. City's Notice of Default & Breach: If Tenant is in Default, City shall provide written notice to Tenant, specifying the nature of the Default, the reasonable number of days (but not more than thirty (30) days) after the date of the notice within which such Default must be cured to avoid termination, and the City's intention to terminate this Lease if the Default is not corrected within such stated period.

 C. Remedies: If Tenant fails to cure any Default within the time specified in the Director's notice, the City may thereafter terminate this Lease without any further proceedings, re-enter the Premises, lease and license others to use said Premises during any portion of the period of use remaining under this Lease had it not been terminated, and receive rent, additional rent and license fees and other sums therefore; Provided, that notwithstanding such termination and/or re-entry, Tenant's liability for the rent and any other sums due under the Lease to be paid to the City hereunder shall not be extinguished, and Tenant shall pay to the City the difference between said rent and any other sums due under the Lease and the sum the City receives (if any) for the use of the Premises by one or more other users during the period beginning on the date Tenant's rights under this Lease are terminated and ending on the scheduled expiration date of this Lease. Such payment shall be made monthly, within fifteen (15) days after the date of the City's invoice to Tenant. Tenant's liability for rent and any other sums due pursuant to this Section shall be subject to the late fees and interest provided for in Section 4 of this Lease. Tenant shall also be liable for and shall reimburse City for any other amount necessary to compensate City for all the detriment proximately caused by Tenant's failure to perform its obligations under this Lease, including but not limited to, any costs or expenses incurred by City in retaking possession of the Premises, maintaining or preserving the Premises after such Default, preparing the Premises for reletting to a new tenant, including repairs or alterations to the Premises for such reletting, leasing commissions, and any other costs necessary or appropriate to relet the Premises, and such other amounts in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing as may be permitted from time to time by the laws of the State of Washington. If the City re-enters the Premises, City shall have the right, but not the obligation, to remove there from all or any part of the personal property located therein and may place the same in storage at a public warehouse at the expense and risk of Tenant.

 D. Adequate Security: If a petition is filed by or against Tenant under any provision of the Bankruptcy Code or successor act, City reserves the right to require Tenant to post a cash bond with City equal to six (6) months' Fixed Rent and additional sums to provide City with adequate security for Tenant's performance of its obligations under this Lease.

 E. Criteria for Substitute Tenant: The City's obligation to mitigate damages after a default by Tenant under this Lease that results in the City's regaining possession of all or part of the Premises shall be satisfied in full if the City undertakes to lease the Premises to another tenant (a "Substitute Tenant") in accordance with the following criteria:

 The City shall have no obligation to solicit or entertain negotiations with any other prospective tenants for the Premises until the City obtains full and complete possession of the Premises including, without limitation, the final and unappealable legal right to re-let the Premises free of any claim of Tenant.

 The City shall not be obligated to offer the Premises to any prospective tenant when other Premises on the Seattle Center suitable for that prospective tenant's use are currently available, or will be available within the next three months.

 The City shall not be obligated to lease the Premises to a Substitute Tenant for a rental less than the current fair market rental then prevailing for similar comparable facilities in the same market area as the Seattle Center.

 The City shall not be obligated to enter into a new lease under terms and conditions that are unacceptable to the City under the City's then current leasing policies for comparable space at the Seattle Center.

 The City shall not be obligated to enter into a lease with any proposed Substitute Tenant that does not have in the Director's reasonable opinion, sufficient financial resource or operating experience. The City shall not be required to expend any amount of money to alter, remodel, or otherwise make the Premises suitable for use by a Substitute Tenant unless:

 (a) Tenant pays any such sum to the City in advance of the City's execution of a lease with such Substitute Tenant (which payment shall not be in lieu of any damages or other sums to which the City may be entitled to as a result of Tenant's default under this Lease); or

 (b) The City, in the Director's sole discretion, determines that any such expenditure is financially justified in connection with entering into any lease with such Substitute Tenant.

 The City shall not be obligated to enter into a lease with any Substitute Tenant whose use would:

 (a) Disrupt the tenant mix or balance of the Seattle Center;

 (b) Violate any restriction, covenant, or requirements contained in the lease of another tenant of the Seattle Center;

 (c) Adversely affect the reputation of the Seattle Center;

 (d) Be incompatible with the operation of the Seattle Center as a first-class event and cultural community gathering center.

 F. Default by City: The City shall not be in default of any obligation to perform under this Lease unless the City fails to perform such obligation within a reasonable time, which time shall not extend more than thirty (30) days after written notice by the Tenant to the Director specifying the particular obligation that the City has failed to perform; Provided, however, that if the nature of the City's obligation is such that more than thirty (30) days are required for performance, then the City shall not be in default if the City commences performance within such thirty (30) day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 20. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE

 Rights under this Lease are cumulative; failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. Each party shall also have any other remedy given by the law. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 21. SURRENDER OF PREMISES; HOLDING OVER

 A. Surrender & Delivery: Upon the expiration or termination date of this Lease, whichever is earlier, Tenant shall surrender the Premises in a broom clean condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted. Tenant shall promptly deliver to the Director all keys Tenant, and any of its officers, agents, and employees have to the Premises or any other part of the Seattle Center. Immediately following the vacating of the Premises and the surrender of the same to the City, a representative of the Tenant shall inspect the Premises with the Director to determine the condition of the Premises. The results of such inspection shall be summarized by the Director on a Premises inspection report, a copy of which shall be provided to Tenant. If the Director determines that Tenant has failed to surrender the Premises in a broom clean condition the Director shall have the right to restore the Premises to a broom clean condition at the expense of Tenant. Tenant shall reimburse the City for its costs therefor, including any administrative costs.

 B. Removal of Tenant's Property: Prior to the expiration date of this Lease, or in the event this Lease is terminated, within fifteen (15) days after the termination date, whichever is earlier, Tenant shall remove, at its sole expense, all trade equipment and personal property owned or installed by Tenant in, on, or from the Premises, unless the Director agrees in writing that any requested items may stay. Tenant shall take due care to not injure or damage the Premises, and shall make such repairs to the Premises as shall be necessary to restore the same to their condition as of the commencement date of this Lease, ordinary wear and tear and improvements, additions, and alterations, approved by the City excepted.

 C. Storage of Tenant's Property: In the event Tenant fails to remove trade equipment and personal property owned or installed by Tenant by the expiration date or within fifteen (15) days after the termination date, the City may, but shall not be required to remove such material from the Premises and store the same, all at Tenant's risk and expense; and in the event the City removes or arranges for the storage of such material, Tenant shall reimburse the City for its costs therefore, including any restoration and administrative costs.

 D. Hold-over Use & Occupancy of Premises: In the event Tenant, with the Director's consent, holds over after the expiration or sooner termination of the Lease Term, the resulting use and occupancy shall be on a monthly basis, during which time Tenant shall be bound by all of the provisions of this Lease other than the amount of the monthly Fixed Rent, which amount shall be the greater of the amount charged for the month immediately preceding the expiration or termination date, whichever is earlier, or the fair market value for the Premises. If, however, Tenant holds over without the Director's consent, after the expiration or sooner termination of the Lease Term, whether by failing to remove its trade equipment or personal property or otherwise, Tenant shall pay to the City, as damages twice the amount of (a) the Fixed Rent and Additional Rent due the month prior to expiration or sooner termination of the Lease Term or (b) the fair market rent and Additional Rent due the month prior to expiration or sooner termination, whichever is higher, and shall be bound by all of the other provisions of this Lease. If Tenant fails to surrender the Premises upon the expiration or sooner termination of this Lease without the Director's consent, Tenant shall, in addition to all other indemnity provisions of this Lease, indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the City from all losses, damages, liabilities, and expenses resulting from such failure, including without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any claims made by any succeeding tenant arising out of such failure.

 E. No Claim for Removal: In no event shall Tenant make any claim or demand upon the City nor shall the City be liable for any inconvenience, annoyance, disturbance, or loss of business or any other damage suffered by the Tenant arising out of removal operations under this Section. .

 22. NOTICES

 All notices from either party to the other shall be in writing and delivered or mailed, postage prepaid, to the intended recipient at the address specified on the signature page of this Lease, or to such other address as may be specified, from time to time, by either party, by notice to the other party.

 23. NO RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED

 The City shall in no event be construed to be a partner, associate, or joint venturer of the Tenant, or any party associated with the Tenant. The Tenant is not an agent of City for any purpose whatsoever. The Tenant shall not create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of the City or bind the City in any manner.

 24. AUTHORITY OF "DIRECTOR"

 No action of the Director pursuant to or in implementation of this Lease shall constitute any official action by any other City department or official that may be required by law, ordinance, rule or regulation before Tenant may rightfully commence, suspend, enlarge, or terminate any particular undertaking or may obtain or exercise any particular right or privilege under this Lease. Any approval, consent or permission required of the Director by this Lease may be granted, conditioned or withheld by the Director in the exercise of such official's sole discretion.

 25. AMENDMENTS

 No modification or amendment of the terms hereof shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the authorized representative of each of the parties hereto.

 26. NO WAIVER

 Nothing other than a written document signed personally by the Director or such official's designee and specifically declaring a City intent to waive a particular breach or Default by Tenant shall constitute a waiver of such breach or Default. No such document shall waive Tenant's failure to fully comply with any term or condition of this Lease not specifically referenced therein, irrespective of any knowledge any City officer or employee may have of such breach, Default, or noncompliance. No waiver by either party shall be construed to be, or operate as, a waiver of any subsequent Default in full performance of any provision of this Lease. The payment or acceptance of any Rent, other sums due, or other compensation, whether after a Default or from a sub lessee or assignee, shall not be deemed to constitute consent to or acceptance of such Default or acceptance of defective or incomplete performance in the future.

 27. USE OF LANGUAGE

 Terms used in the neuter gender include the masculine and feminine; and terms used in the singular or plural include the other, as the context may require.

 28. CAPTIONS

 The titles of sections or other parts of this Lease are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 29. INVALIDITY OF PARTICULAR PROVISIONS

 Should any term, provision, condition, or other portion of this Lease or the application thereof be held to be inoperative, invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Lease or the application of such term or provision to person or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected hereby and shall continue in full force and effect.

 31. BINDING EFFECT

 The provision, covenants, and conditions contained in this Lease apply to bind the parties, their legal heirs, representatives, successors, and assigns.

 32. NO BROKER.

 Tenant represents and warrants that there is no claim for any brokerage commission or finder's fee in connection with the execution of this Lease.

 33. INSTALLATION OR INTEGRATION OF VISUAL ART WORKS PROHIBITED WITHOUT DIRECTOR'S CONSENT

 A. The City reserves to and for itself the right to approve or disapprove of the installation or integration on or in the Premises of any "work of visual art," as that term is defined in the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, as now existing or as later amended, and to approve or disapprove of each and every agreement regarding any such installation or integration. Tenant shall not install on or integrate into, or permit any other person or entity to install on or integrate into, the Premises any such work of visual art without the prior, express, written consent of the Director. The Director's consent to the installation of any such art work may be granted, granted upon one or more conditions, or withheld in the Director's discretion; Provided, however, that Director's consent to the installation by or for Tenant of any such art work shall not be required under the following three (3) circumstances:

 (1) If such art work (a) weighs less than fifty (50) pounds; and (b) is of a size and has such dimensions and material composition that makes its passage through an open 32" x 78" or larger doorway a simple and easy maneuver; and (c) is to be installed on the floor, a piece of furniture, or similar surface without further anchoring of any kind or nature, or on a wall using no more than two (2) simple picture hooks and wire; all so that the easy removability from the Premises of such art work without its destruction, distortion, mutilation or other modification by reason of such removal is undeniable; or

 (2) If Tenant delivers to City a waiver appropriately executed by the art work creator, for the benefit of the City and its successors and assigns as the owner of the Premises, of the creator's right of integrity regarding such art work, in a form of waiver that satisfies both City and the requirements of 17 U.S.C. section106A(e), as the same now exists or is hereafter modified; or

 (3) If the City executes with the creator of a work of visual art to be installed in the Premises a consent agreement of the type contemplated by 17 U.S.C. section113(d)(1), as the same now exists or is hereafter amended, and in the form and manner specified by City.

 B. In the event the creator of any work of visual art installed in the Premises by or for Tenant has not executed a waiver, or such creator and the City have not executed a consent agreement, each as described herein, Tenant shall ensure that, prior to removing or allowing the removal from the Premises of any such art work, such creator is given both notice, as contemplated in 17 U.S.C. section113(d)(2), of the intended removal of such art work, and the time required by that statutory provision to respond to such notice, and that Tenant takes whatever other action(s) may be required by such legislation to ensure that no claim, action or suit alleging a violation of the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, as now existing or hereafter amended, and arising out of any act or omission of or for Tenant or any of its officers, employees, or agents, is filed or lodged against the City in its capacity as the Premises owner.

 C. Tenant's Indemnification of the City Against Liability under Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990. In addition to all other indemnity provisions of this Lease, the Tenant shall protect, defend, and hold the City harmless from and against any and all claims, suits, actions or causes of action, damages and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs) arising as a consequence of (a) the installation or integration of any work of visual art on or into the Premises; (b) the destruction, distortion, mutilation or other modification of the art work that results by reason of its removal; or (c) any breach of this section; or (d) any violation of the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, as now existing or hereafter amended; by Tenant or any of its officers, employees or agents. This indemnification obligation shall exist regardless of whether the City or any other person employed by the City has knowledge of such installation, integration, or removal or has consented to any such action or is not required to give prior consent to any such action. The indemnification obligation of this subsection shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.

 34. ATTORNEYS FEES

 If an action is brought to enforce the terms of the Lease, each party agrees to bear its own attorneys' fees and costs.

 35. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF NEGOTIATED LEASE; APPLICABLE LAW

 The parties to this Lease acknowledge that it is a negotiated lease, that they have had the opportunity to have the Lease reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Lease are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof. This Lease shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue of any action brought to enforce the terms of this Lease shall be King County Superior Court.

 36. EMINENT DOMAIN

 A. Total Taking. In the event of a Total Taking, this Lease shall terminate as of the date of the taking of physical possession of the Premises. A "Total Taking" shall be defined as when (i) the entire Building is taken or appropriated under the power of eminent domain (other than by The City of Seattle), or (ii) when less than the entire Building is taken or appropriated under the power of eminent domain (other than by The City of Seattle), but where the Tenant's use of the Premises is materially interfered with. Upon the date of such taking or transfer, the Term of this Lease shall expire as fully and completely as if such date were the date hereinabove set forth for the end of the Term of this Lease and Tenant shall thereupon vacate the Premises, without prejudice to any rights and remedies accrued to City under this Lease prior to such termination and any Rent paid or payable by Tenant shall be adjusted as of the date of such termination.

 B. Partial Taking. In the event there is a "Partial Taking," defined as a taking or appropriation under the power of eminent domain (other than by The City of Seattle) other than a Total Taking, then the Lease shall continue in full force and effect; provided, however, that City shall proceed as promptly as is practicable to restore the Building to an architectural unit as nearly comparable as is reasonable to the unit existing just prior to such taking or transfer to the extent that such restoration can be accomplished with the available condemnation proceeds, and the Fixed Rent shall be abated in the ratio which the part of the floor area of the Premises so taken or transferred, if any, bears to the entire floor area of Premises immediately prior to such taking or transfer.

 C. Condemnation Award. The entire award for the taking under any right of condemnation or eminent domain or any transfer in lieu thereof shall belong to City, and Tenant shall not be entitled to any part thereof or entitled to recover damages for the loss of its leasehold estate or other interest in the Premises and hereby assigns to City all of its right, title and interest in and to any such award. Tenant shall have the right, however, to independently claim and recover from the condemning authority compensation for any loss to which Tenant may be put for Tenant's moving expenses or taking of Tenant's personal property (not including Tenant's leasehold interest) provided that such damages may be claimed only if they are awarded separately in the eminent domain proceedings and not out of or as part of the damages recoverable by City.

 37. CONSTRUCTION, ALTERATIONS, IMPROVEMENTS AND ADDITIONS.

 Tenant shall not make any alteration in, or addition or improvement to the Premises unless the same has been specifically approved in writing by the Director. Any expense incurred in performing mutually agreed- upon alterations, improvements, repairs or new construction necessary for Tenant's use and occupancy shall be borne solely by Lessee.

 38. EXHIBITS The following exhibits are made a part of this Lease: Exhibit A: Premises Plat Map Exhibit B: Premises Floor Plan/Map Exhibit C: Seattle Center Vision Statement Exhibit D: Seattle Center Rules and Regulations

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this instrument the day and year indicated below:

 LESSEE:

 LESSOR:

 SEATTLE WORKS

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By ______________________________

 By ______________________________

 Alison Carl, Executive Director

 Virginia Anderson, Director

 Seattle Works

 Seattle Center Department

 BUSINESS ADDRESSES FOR NOTICES

 TENANT:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE:

 Attn: Executive Director

 Manager, Contracts & Concessions

 Seattle Works

 Seattle Center Department

 312 First Avenue North

 305 Harrison, Room 322

 Seattle, WA 98109

 Seattle, WA 98109

 PHONE NO.: 206 -324-0808

 PHONE NO.: 206-684-7114

 STATE OF WASHINGTON)

 ) ss (Acknowledgment for Tenant, Seattle Works)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______day of ______________________________, 200___, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of

 ____________________________, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Alison Carl, to me known to be the Executive Director of SEATTLE WORKS, the entity that executed the foregoing Lease as Tenant; and acknowledged to me that he/she signed the same as the free and voluntary act and deed for said entity, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument for said entity.

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that the person appearing before me and making this acknowledgement is the person whose true signature appears on this document.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL the day and year in this certificate above written.

 _____________________________________________________

 Signature

 _____________________________________________________

 (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 Residing at___________________________________

 My commission expires:________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON)

 ) ss (Acknowledgment for the City of Seattle)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______day of ______________________________, 200___, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of

 ____________________________, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Virginia Anderson, to me known to be the Seattle Center Director of the CITY OF SEATTLE, the entity that executed the foregoing Lease as Lessor; and acknowledged to me that he/she signed the same as the free and voluntary act and deed for said entity, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument for said entity.

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that the person appearing before me and making this acknowledgement is the person whose true signature appears on this document.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL the day and year in this certificate above written.

 _____________________________________________________

 Signature

 _____________________________________________________

 (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 Residing at___________________________________

 My commission expires:________________________ August 16, 2004

 EXHIBIT A TO ATTACHMENT 1: [Plat Map](/~ordpics/115006At1ExA.gif)

 EXHIBIT B TO ATTACHMENT 1: [Floor Plan](/~ordpics/115006At1ExB.gif)

 EXHIBIT C - SEATTLE CENTER VISION STATEMENT We are the nation's best gathering place. Supported by the people of Seattle, we are home to the finest cultural and educational organizations, sports teams, festivals, community programs and entertainment facilities. We exist to delight and inspire the human spirit in each person and bring us together as a rich and varied community.

 EXHIBIT D - SEATTLE CENTER CAMPUS RULES

 Seattle Center Vision Statement We are the nation's best gathering place. Supported by the people of Seattle, we are home to the finest cultural and educational organizations, sports teams, festivals, community programs and entertainment facilities. We exist to delight and inspire the human spirit in each person and bring us together as a rich and varied community.

 A: General Provisions

 Seattle Center is a department of the City of Seattle. It is a beautiful 74-acre landscaped campus that includes theaters, arenas, museums, and other public facilities.

 Its roots reach back more than 100 years as a site of Native American celebrations. Seattle Center is a reflection of the Northwest itself: the cultural diversity; the commitment to the arts, to the environment, and to education; and the love of sports and quality entertainment. With over 10 million visitors a year, it is the fourth largest visitor destination in the United States.

 B: Purpose

 These rules are intended to help provide for the safe enjoyment of all that Seattle Center has to offer. Prohibited and inappropriate behavior on the Seattle Center Campus diminishes these precious assets and deprives citizens of the full use and enjoyment of the natural beauty, recreational opportunities and peaceful repose that the Seattle Center campus provides in the center of an urban setting.

 All persons on the Seattle Center campus shall be governed by these rules and regulations and by order and instructions of the Seattle Center Director relative to the use or occupation of any part of the Seattle Center grounds or buildings and shall comply with written or oral instructions issued by the Director, Seattle Center employees, Seattle Center authorized agents, or Seattle Police to enforce these regulations.

 C: Definitions

 Unless clearly inconsistent with the context in which used, the following definitions apply:

 1. "Adequate leash" means a leash of six (6) feet in length or shorter.

 2. "Buildings" means all enclosed or sheltered areas on the campus, including inside buildings, under covered walkways and under building overhangs.

 3. "Camp" means to erect a tent or other shelter, or to use sleeping equipment, such as sleeping bags, blankets, cardboard, tarps or similar coverings for the purpose of sleeping.

 4. "Campus" means all grounds and all buildings, including gardens, lawns, open spaces, fountains, streets, roads, pathways, parking lots, garages, plazas, and sculptures that comprise the areas under the control of Director of Seattle Center, as shown on Exhibit 'A' attached.

 5. "Captive Audience" means any person or group of persons: 1) waiting in line to obtain tickets or food or other goods or services, or to attend any Seattle Center event; 2) attending or being in an audience at any Seattle Center event; or 3) seated in any seating location where foods or beverages are consumed.

 6. "Commercial Activity" means any business activity, profession, trade or occupation requiring a City of Seattle Business License; any activity that is taxable under the City of Seattle's Business and Occupation tax; any activity engaged in with the object of financial gain, benefit or advantage, directly or indirectly, or any activity, including commercial speech, that proposes or offers an exchange of valuable consideration for goods or services at the time of the proposal or in the future, for consummation on or off campus. Commercial Activities include but are not limited to vending, food concessions, advertising, promotion, filming, exhibits, commercial photography, placement of telecommunication relay devices or fiber optic devices, airspace use, sub soil rights, and giving away products such as, but not limited to, food, gum, and medicines.

 7. "Commercial Speech" means any speech relating to commercial activities.

 8. "Director" means the Seattle Center Director or his or her designee.

 9. "Exclusion Notice" means that the recipient is no longer invited, licensed, permitted or otherwise privileged to remain on the premises of the campus from which he or she was ordered to leave. The Exclusion Notice shall be in writing and shall contain the date of issuance. The Exclusion Notice shall specify the length and places of exclusion. The issuing individual shall sign it. Warning of the consequences for failure to comply shall be prominently displayed on the notice.

 10. "Grounds" means all outdoor areas of the campus.

 11. "License" means a negotiated written agreement with Seattle Center, which authorizes a person or entity to engage in a specific use, or activity on a portion or all of the Seattle Center campus.

 12. "Political Speech" means verbal or written communication intended to convey a non-commercial political, religious, and philosophical or other similar message to the public, and includes distributing literature, seeking petition signatures, picketing, demonstrating, or carrying signs.

 13. "Seattle Center Campus Rules" means these rules or other rules so entitled and promulgated by the Director.

 14. "Speech Activities" includes both political speech and commercial speech. Speech activities does not include activity conducted by City employees or licensed concessionaires.

 15. "Street Performer" means a member of the general public who engages in any performing art or the playing of any musical instrument, singing or vocalizing, with or without musical accompaniment, and whose performance is not an official part of an event sponsored by the Seattle Center or by a Seattle Center licensee.

 16. "Street Performer Permit" means a written authorization issued by Seattle Center pursuant to these or other applicable rules to an individual to engage, consistent with these rules and with all applicable laws, in street performances at designated locations on the Seattle Center campus.

 17. "Violation" means an act or omission or combination thereof that is contrary to any campus rule or any civil or criminal provision of the Revised Code of Washington, the Seattle Municipal Code, or other applicable law.

 18. "Weapon" means any firearm or any instrument designed or intended to propel a missile of any kind, or any knife having a blade of three inches or more, or any straight-edge razor, spring stick, metal knuckles, blackjack, bat, club or other bludgeon-type instrument, or any flailing instrument consisting of two or more rigid parts connected in such a manner as to allow them to swing freely, such as nun chahkas, nunchakus or shurikens, or chains, or whips, or stars, or darts, or stun gun, or taser, or any disc having at least two points or pointed blades which is designed to be thrown or propelled.

 19. "Weapon violation" means possession or use of a weapon in violation of Chapter 9.41 of the Revised Code of Washington, Chapter 12A.14 of the Seattle Municipal Code or other applicable statute or ordinance.

 D: Director's Authority - Rulemaking - Enforcement

 The Director shall have the power to enforce these rules. The Director may, in accordance with SMC 17.04.040 of the Administrative Code, adopt, amend and rescind rules in order to manage and control the campus.

 E: Licenses

 The following activities require a license. Engaging in any activity requiring a license without a valid license is a violation of these rules. Licenses shall not be required for participants in Seattle Center produced or financially sponsored programs, or for activities conducted under a lease or other contract with Seattle Center.

 1. Conducting any Commercial Activity on the grounds or in any buildings.

 2. Other activities that constitute an exercise of dominion or control over a portion of the Seattle Center campus, thereby limiting the general public's ability to use that area of the campus.

 3. Use of the Seattle Center name or logo or any of the Seattle Center's images, exclusive representations, copyrighted or proprietary material, for commercial purposes.

 4. Posting any signs, posters, banners, notices, or A frames; placing or erecting any structure or obstruction of any kind within the campus, whether temporary or permanent.

 5. Making any improvement to or on the campus or construction of a public work, or placement of visual art.

 6. Using any outdoor electrical power outlet or indoor electrical power outlet for use outside; or laying cables or extending wires on the campus.

 7. Festivals, programs and other events.

 8. Use and/or occupancy of all or a portion of any facility, room or part or all of the campus; and constituting the exclusive use therefore.

 9. The Use of sound or voice amplification equipment on the campus.

 10. The placement of tables, stands, or other structures on the campus.

 11. Storage of placards, boxes or supplies on the campus.

 12. Posting of signs, posters, literature, notices or similar on the campus.

 13. The use of any flammable liquids.

 a. Terms and conditions of Licenses

 The Director may condition a License or impose such terms and conditions as appropriate to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public and/or the campus; to protect property; to avoid or limit unnecessary interference with other uses or users of the campus; to minimize disturbance of the surrounding neighborhood; and to require the user to leave the area under License in a condition after the activity or event as it was beforehand. For this purpose, the Director may require the user to furnish public liability and property damage insurance, naming the City of Seattle as an additional insured, in such amounts as reasonably necessary to provide recompense for personal injury or death or property damage to a member of the public as a result of the event or activity and/or make a reasonable security and damage deposit, or provide a bond. The Director shall have full discretion as to the terms of the License, and shall have the authority to immediately suspend or terminate such without prior notice upon violation of applicable law, a Seattle Center Campus Rule, or any term or condition of the license.

 The Director has the authority to suspend a License during activities or events that have been granted exclusive use rights to the campus or any portion of the campus. Exclusive use activities and events can include festivals, Seattle Center programming, Seattle Center sponsored or co-sponsored events, or exclusive licensed activities.

 All Licenses shall be wholly of a temporary nature, shall vest no permanent right, and may be revoked for convenience upon seven (7) days' notice or, if the License so states, upon shorter notice.

 b. License Fees

 The Director is authorized to charge fees for licensed activities. Fees can be based solely upon or in combination with a percentage of gross sales, a one-time flat fee, a fee per each instance the licensed activity is exercised, the recovery of Seattle Center costs associated with the License issuance and authorized activities. Issuance of a License shall also be subject to payment of fees, taxes or charges as required by ordinance or authorized by resolution of the Seattle City Council, or pursuant to King County or State of Washington requirements, or all applicable laws.

 c. Refund of deposits and fees

 The Director is authorized to refund fees, on a prorated basis, upon cancellation of a License and to return all or any portion of any security and damage deposit when no longer needed or after costs that may be charged against the License have been paid.

 F: Street Performers

 The following rules govern performances by individual Street Performers on Seattle Center campus including, but not limited to, musicians, mimes, jugglers and balloon artists:

 1. Individual Street Performer Permit Application Process

 Applications shall be made in writing upon a form prescribed by the Director that may require all information reasonably necessary to identify the applicant and to allow assignment of designated locations for performances on the Seattle Center campus.

 A Street Performer Permit is issued upon Director's satisfaction that the information set forth in the application is true, the applicant has executed a statement stating that he or she will comply with applicable law and all provisions of the Seattle Center rules, and has paid the applicable application fee. The Permit shall be subject to suspension or revocation for material change in the matters set forth in the application, for violation of any Seattle Center rule or regulation, or for violation of any applicable law. A reasonable application fee, related to administrative costs, may be charged.

 Permits, when issued, shall be evidenced by a badge that shall be worn or displayed by the performer in plain view at all times during a performance. An applicant must be 18 years of age or older to obtain a Permit. Applicants under the age of 18 must have a parent or guardian who is 18 years of age or older co-sign their application.

 2. Terms and Conditions of Permits

 The Director may condition the Street Performer Permit or impose such terms and conditions as appropriate to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public and/or the campus; to protect property; to avoid or limit unnecessary interference with other uses or users of the campus; to minimize disturbance of the surrounding neighborhood; and to require the user to leave the area under Permit in the same condition after the activity or event as it was beforehand. For this purpose, the Director may require the user to: furnish public liability and property damage insurance, naming the City of Seattle as an additional insured, in such amounts as reasonably necessary to provide recompense for personal injury or death or property damage to a member of the public as a result of the event or activity; make a reasonable security and damage deposit; or provide a bond. The Director shall have full discretion as to the term of the Permit, and shall have the authority to immediately suspend or revoke such without prior notice upon violation of applicable law, a Seattle Center rule, including these Seattle Center Campus Rules, or any term or condition of the Permit.

 All Permits shall be wholly of a temporary nature, shall vest no permanent right, and may be revoked for convenience upon seven (7) days' notice or, if the Permit so states, upon shorter notice.

 All Street Performer Permits shall be issued only to individuals who have satisfied the requirements of the Permit application process. Street Performer Permits will not be issued to organizations, groups of people, companies or bands, and are non-transferable.

 Permits shall be valid for a calendar year in which the Permit is issued unless suspended or revoked by the Director as provided herein. A performer shall be entitled to only one Permit, which shall not be transferable.

 The Director shall have the authority to immediately suspend a Permit during activities or events that have been granted exclusive use rights to the campus or any portion of the campus. Exclusive use activities and events can include festivals, Seattle Center programming, Seattle Center sponsored or co-sponsored events, or exclusive Licensed activities.

 3. Donations and Volume

 a. Passive Solicitation of Donations Only

 Donations for performances may be accepted passively in an instrument case or other receptacle provided for that purpose by the performer. The receptacle may include a written sign that informs the public that such donations are sought. No performer shall actively solicit donations, for example by live or recorded word of mouth, gesture, mechanical devices, or second parties.

 b. Performers shall immediately comply with requests of the Director to moderate the volume of their performance to a level appropriate to the surroundings.

 4. Performance Times

 Performers may perform on the Seattle Center campus only between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. unless specifically authorized otherwise by the Director.

 Specific performance times will not be assigned to a performer by the Center. Performance locations are available on a first come first served basis and performers must be present in person to establish himself or herself at a location. If the performer abandons the location, for any reason, the location may be utilized by another performer. Locations may not be "saved" or "reserved". Performers are expected to comply with these rules as a condition of their Permit.

 A performer may be required to end a performance at any time if, in the estimation of the Director, a continuing performance violates these rules and regulations or constitutes a hazard to public safety (for example due to crowding, non-compliance of the Fire Code or blocking of access so as to hinder or obstruct pedestrians or vehicles).

 It is the Center's intent that these rules be self-enforcing and that musicians police each other to achieve compliance and that musicians respect the requests of residents, visitors, and other users of the Campus.

 5. Performance Locations

 Performers may perform only at designated locations on the Seattle Center grounds, as specified in the permit application. A colored stencil will mark all performance locations with a number inside, unless otherwise noted below, designating the maximum number of performers whom may perform at that location. The maximum number of individual performers in any location is limited to the corresponding number stenciled within the location circle, as described in the permit application unless expressly authorized by the Director. The Director may relocate performers or require a reduction in the number of performers if, in the determination of the Director, the performance: significantly interferes with verbal communication at the nearest event or place of business; interferes with vehicular movement; aggravates foot traffic congestion in common areas at or near a performance location; or otherwise interferes with the public's ability to use the Center or facilities. Most locations will be designated as "Quiet" performance locations; percussion and brass instruments will be prohibited at these locations. Amplification is prohibited at all locations.

 Upon special written request by a performer, the Director may approve an increase above the number of people designated at a specific location. Such approval may be granted under special conditions that place specific limits on the time(s) of performances and/or location of performances by extraordinary group sizes or other considerations. Performers operating under such special conditions must have the Director's written authorization on their person when performing.

 A map of the performance locations will be provided with the permit application.

 6. Prohibition on Commercial Activity under Street Performer Permit

 Use of a street performer location for Commercial Activity is expressly prohibited. Commercial vending of products is not considered a "performance" and, as such, vendors do not qualify as "performers" under these rules and regulations.

 Performers may receive donations. However, performers are prohibited from active solicitation of donations and from active sale of any product, including products associated with the performance.

 7. Standards of Conduct

 a. No performer shall treat any person or animal in a manner that is aggressive, menacing, vulgar, profane or abusive.

 b. Children are permitted to accompany performers as long as they do not create a nuisance or disturbance to others, or otherwise interfere with the public's ability to use the Center or its facilities.

 c. Trading, selling, or transferring performer Permits is prohibited and may result in the immediate revocation of a permit.

 d. Drinking of alcoholic beverages or use of any controlled substance, or performing while intoxicated or under the influence of any controlled substance is prohibited.

 8. Sale of Recordings

 Active selling of recordings or other products is prohibited. Performers may receive donations. However, performers are prohibited from active solicitation of donations and from active sale of any product, including products associated with the performance. Performers may passively make recordings available for a suggested donation.

 G: Speech Activities

 1. Speech Activities on the Grounds Which Require No License

 The following speech activities are allowed on the grounds, but not in buildings, and require no license or advance notice to Seattle Center:

 a. Leafleting and gathering signatures.

 No permit is required to distribute leaflets or gather signatures on the Grounds so long as no table or other structure is placed on the Grounds. Leafleting and signature gathering within (30) feet of a captive audience or building entrance is prohibited. Leafleting and signature gathering are also prohibited inside Seattle Center buildings, except as otherwise provided in a license or other agreement.

 b. Carrying Signs

 The carrying of signs or placards is allowed on the grounds so long as it is done in a manner consistent with these rules and all applicable laws.

 2. Speech Activities on the Grounds which require a License.

 a. Gatherings, Demonstrations and Meetings - A gathering on the grounds that is reasonably anticipated to exceed one hundred (100) people requires prior notice to Seattle Center and a license. The Center will attempt to find an appropriate location on the grounds, based on the size of the anticipated gathering.

 b. The use of sound or voice amplifying apparatus in a building or on the grounds is prohibited without a Seattle Center License.

 c. Tables, stands, or other structures shall not be used or placed upon the Seattle Center Grounds or within any building without a license.

 d. There shall be no storage of signs, placards, boxes, or supplies on the Grounds or within any building without a license.

 e. There shall be no posting of signs, literature, notices, stickers or the like on the Seattle Center Campus without a Seattle Center License.

 3. The following activities are prohibited in Seattle Center buildings unless expressly authorized by the Director in a license, lease, or other agreement:

 Performing, picketing, demonstrating, displaying signs, leafleting, gathering signatures, or actively soliciting donations.

 4. Speech Activities Generally - Locations

 Unless conducted pursuant to a Seattle Center License or other agreement speech activities are prohibited: in those portions of the Seattle Center not open to the general public for common use; within thirty (30) feet of any captive audience; or within thirty (30) feet of any building entrance; or within thirty (30) feet of any person engaged in any scheduled event that is sponsored or co-sponsored by Seattle Center. No person shall engage in speech activities in such a way as to interfere with or hinder pedestrian or vehicular traffic flows.

 5. Applicability of Speech Rules to Major Events

 a. Gated Events and Rooms or Buildings Reserved for Exclusive Use: Inside the reserved or gated areas, whether grounds, buildings, or both, the Event organizers may control speech activities, both commercial and political, and all commercial activities. Individuals who wish to engage in commercial activities, or commercial or speech activities inside the gated areas should contact the event organizers for permission.

 b. Ungated Events: The Event organizers may, under the terms of the applicable event agreement, control commercial activities and commercial speech inside the event area. However, these rules regarding political speech activities apply both outside and inside the event area.

 H: Property Regulations

 No-Trespassing Areas - Removal or Destruction of Property - Structure or Obstructions

 1. It is prohibited for any person except a duly authorized Seattle Center employee or agent or other person duly authorized pursuant to law, to enter or go upon any area which has been designated and posted by the Director as "no admittance" "no trespassing", "not open to the public", or other similarly designated area.

 2. It is prohibited for any person except a duly authorized Seattle Center employee or agent or other person duly authorized pursuant to law, to remove, destroy, damage, mutilate or deface any structure, lawn, monument, statue, vase, fountain, wall, fence, railing, vehicle, bench, shrub, tree, geological formation, plant, flower, lighting system, sprinkling system, gate, barricade or lock or other property lawfully on the campus, or to remove sand, soil, plant materials, or sod on the campus.

 3. It is prohibited for any person other than a duly authorized employee or agent of the Seattle Center to place or erect on the campus a structure or obstruction of any kind without a License from the Director.

 4. The Seattle Center Campus is officially open from 7:00 A.M. to Midnight daily. (by Ordinance 92792)

 I: Prohibited Acts

 1. Animals on campus are prohibited.

 a. Exceptions:

 1. American with Disabilities Act (ADA) service animals, defined as an animal that is individually trained to assist an individual with a disability.

 2. Animals on adequate leashes and under the control of an individual physically able to restrain the animal.

 3. Horses or dogs used by public law enforcement agencies and under the control of a law enforcement officer.

 4. Animals that are part of a Seattle Center licensed or sponsored activity.

 b. Adequate leash required. Any person with an animal in his or her possession must keep the animal on an adequate leash while on campus and shall be responsible and liable for the conduct of the animal, shall carry equipment for removing feces, and shall place feces deposited by such animal in an appropriate receptacle.

 c. Major events. For the safety of both patrons and animals, the Director may prohibit all animals, except ADA service animals from campus during high traffic events such as, but not restricted to, festivals.

 4. Animals prohibited in buildings and designated areas

 It is prohibited for anyone except those individuals with ADA service animals, public law enforcement officers, authorized City employees in the performance of their duties, or Seattle Center authorized licensees to bring any animal into any Seattle Center building or other areas designated by the Director and so posted, or to allow or permit any animal under his control to enter such facilities.

 B. Weapons

 It is prohibited to:

 1. Sell, manufacture, purchase, possess or carry any blackjack, sand-club, metal knuckles, switchblade knife, chako sticks, or throwing stars; or

 2. Carry concealed or unconcealed on his or her person any dangerous knife unless used as a tool for work by Seattle Center employees or their authorized agents, or carry concealed on his or her person any weapon. Seattle Center employees are subject to the Seattle Center Employees Firearm Policy.

 3. Possess a firearm on the campus, except that such restriction shall not apply to any pistol in the possession of a person licensed under RCW 9.41.070 or exempt from the licensing requirement by RCW 9.41.060.

 C. Contraband in Seattle Center facilities

 The following items are prohibited on the Seattle Center campus: illegal drugs, weapons, explosive devices, spray paint, lasers.

 The Director may, by posting notice, prohibit the following items from being brought into a Seattle Center building or to a particular event: alcoholic beverages, cameras, recording devices, bundles, packages, coats, blankets, shawls not being worn, umbrellas, mace, pepper spray, and containers or cases (as defined as, but not limited to, pocketbooks, purses, bags, ice chests, backpacks, cans, bottles, or binocular cases).

 D. Urinating or defecating prohibited except in restrooms.

 Urinating or defecating on the campus, except in facilities specifically provided for the purpose, is prohibited.

 E. Stickers.

 It is prohibited to distribute stickers on the Seattle Center campus without the expressed authorization of the Director. It is prohibited to adhere stickers to any building, structure, or other surface on the Seattle Center campus.

 F. Wheeled devices.

 The use on the campus of all wheeled devices, such as bicycles, skateboards, rollarskates, inline skates, and scooters, is prohibited, except for:

 1. wheeled equipment used by disabled individuals to be ambulatory,

 2. children's strollers, or

 3. wheeled devices such as bikes, skateboards, rollarskates, inline skates, scooters, may be used only for transportation across the campus.

 4. other uses expressly authorized by the Director.

 Operation of any wheeled device in a dangerous manner or in a manner that could damage property is prohibited.

 G. No Wheeled Equipment in the International Fountain.

 With the exception of wheeled equipment used in order to be ambulatory and strollers, all wheeled devices are prohibited from entering the International Fountain.

 H. Vehicular access.

 Vehicular access onto the Seattle Center campus is prohibited.

 1. Exceptions:

 a. In designated parking areas

 b. Authorized by a unload/load pass

 c. Supply deliveries to organizations and businesses on campus shall be authorized to access the campus between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. Monday through Friday and between 9:00 a.m. and 11 a.m. Saturday and Sunday.

 d. Otherwise specifically authorized by the Director

 2. Use of driveways and boulevards - Speed limit.

 It is prohibited to ride, or drive any vehicle over or through the campus at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit, or in excess of ten (10) miles per hour where no speed limit is posted.

 3. Areas closed to general vehicular access.

 Except as authorized by the Director, it is prohibited to drive, operate or park a motor vehicle in an area which is designated as being closed to general vehicular traffic access, including all landscaped areas such as turf areas, shrub areas, decorative plazas; on any pedestrian walkway; and in all other areas not specifically authorized for vehicular traffic.

 I. Liquor offenses

 It is prohibited on the campus to consume, or to possess liquor, as defined in SMC Section 12A.24.010 C, or other applicable law, except as authorized by a Seattle Center License or other agreement and a Permit issued by the Washington State Liquor Control Board or its successor.

 J. Littering - Trash

 It is prohibited to throw or deposit any refuse or other material on the campus, except in designated receptacles. It is also prohibited for any person(s) to dig in, rummage in, in anyway disturb trash in any receptacle.

 K. Smoking

 Smoking is prohibited in all Seattle Center buildings.

 L. Motorized models

 It is prohibited to operate any motorized model aircraft; dirigible, vehicle or motorized model watercraft on the campus, unless expressly authorized by the Director.

 M. Fires

 It is prohibited to ignite or maintain any fire or to participate in igniting, maintaining or using any fire on any portion of Seattle Center Campus unless expressly authorized by the Director.

 N. Camping

 It is prohibited to camp on any portion of the Seattle Center Campus unless expressly authorized by the Director.

 O. Violations of These Rules or of other Applicable Law.

 A violation of these rules or of other applicable laws may, in addition to any applicable civil or criminal penalties, result in the revocation of a person's permission to remain on the Seattle Center campus.

 J: Campus Exclusion

 The Director or his or her designee may, by delivering an Exclusion Notice to the offender, exclude from the Seattle Center Campus for a period not to exceed five (5) days anyone who violates any provision of these rules or any other applicable Seattle Center rules; anyone who violates any provision of the Seattle Municipal Code, the Revised Code of Washington, or other applicable law.

 * The individual need not be charged, tried, or convicted of any crime or infraction in order for an Exclusion Notice to be issued or effective. The Exclusion may be based upon activities observed by the Director or a Seattle Center employee, or upon the sort of civilian reports that would ordinarily be relied upon by police officers in the determination of probable cause.

 * Upon such Notice being given, the recipient shall no longer be invited, licensed or otherwise privileged to remain on the campus.

 K: Trespass on Campus

 Criminal Trespass on Campus shall include:

 1. Any person who knowingly:

 a. Enters or remains on the campus without permission or from which he or she has been excluded during the period covered by an Exclusion Notice pursuant to these rules;

 b. Enters, remains in, or is otherwise present within the premises of the campus during hours within which the campus is not open to the public, or within an area not open to the public, unless the person is present within the campus to participate in an activity either conducted by the Seattle Center or conducted pursuant to the terms of a License or Permit issued by the Seattle Center.

 L: Discrimination prohibited

 1. It is the policy of the City of Seattle, in the exercise of its police powers for the protection of the public health, safety and general welfare, and for the maintenance of peace and good government, to assure equal opportunity for full enjoyment and use of Seattle Center facilities to all persons, free from restrictions because of race, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, age, creed, religion, ancestry, national origin or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap.

 2. It is prohibited for any person occupying or using the campus for any event, activity or exhibition open to the public, whether or not under a License or Permit and whether or not an admission or entrance fee is charged, to deny to any other person the full use and enjoyment of such event, activity, or exhibition because of race, creed, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, age, religion, ancestry, national origin or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap.

 APPROVED:

 Virginia Anderson

 Director, Seattle Center

 Date

 Page 1

```
