

********

**Council Bill Number: 115079**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121664**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Planning and Development; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Chapter 22.900B, General Provisions; Chapter 22.900C, Fees for Land Use and Zoning Review; Chapter 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; Chapter 22.900E, Fees for Certificates and Registrations; Chapter 22.900F, Compliance and Other Inspections; and Chapter 22.900G, Fees Collected for Other Departments.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 22, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 30, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 30, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 18, 2004
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** FEES, DEPARTMENT-OF-PLANNING-AND-DEVELOPMENT, PERMITS, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, ZONING, BUDGET

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Planning and Development; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Chapter 22.900B, General Provisions; Chapter 22.900C, Fees for Land Use and Zoning Review; Chapter 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; Chapter 22.900E, Fees for Certificates and Registrations; Chapter 22.900F, Compliance and Other Inspections; and Chapter 22.900G, Fees Collected for Other Departments.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Effective January 1, 2005, Subsection 22.900A.030 C of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900A.030 Payment and responsibility for fees.

 ***

 C. Both the applicant for the permit, and the owner of the property for which the permit is required, are jointly and severally responsible for payment of fees required by this subtitle~~, regardless of whether the permit is issued or whether the application is canceled or denied before permit issuance~~. However, when an applicant is not the owner and is not acting, even in part, as agent for the owner, the applicant is solely responsible for payment of applicable fees. Applicants and owners are liable for all charges incurred whether or not a favorable decision or recommendation is given by the Director, and regardless of whether a permit is issued or the project or application is canceled or denied before permit issuance.

 ***

 Section 2. Effective January 1, 2005, Subsections 22.900A.040 B and F of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 22.900A.040 Administration and enforcement.

 ***

 B. The Director is authorized to administer, interpret, and enforce the provisions of this subtitle provided, that:

 1. The Director of Public Health shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to fuel gas piping permits; and

 2. The Director of Transportation shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to Seattle Transportation review of projects; and

 3. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to Seattle Public Utilities review of projects; and

 4. The Director of the Department of Neighborhoods shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to certificates of approval, special tax valuation for historic properties, Public School Citizen Advisory Committees, interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20, 25.22, and 25.24 and for environmental (SEPA) review of projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located in special review districts or landmark districts; and

 5. The Director of the Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to the Office's review of projects.

 ***

 F. The total fee assessed for any permit, decision, review, inspection, or approval ~~shall~~may be rounded to the nearest whole dollar (rounded down: $.01 through $.50; rounded up: $.51 through $.99).

 ***

 Section 3. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900B.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900B.010 Base fee and hourly rate

 A. The base fee shall be charged as specified in this subtitle and shall be ~~$150.00~~$155.00.

 B. Any services provided by the Department for which an hourly charge is assessed shall be charged at a rate specified in this subtitle. ~~Applicants and owners shall be liable according to Section 22.900A.030C for all hourly charges incurred whether or not a favorable decision or recommendation is given by the Director or a project is canceled or denied.~~

The hourly rate for land use review is $250.00. The rate for all other hourly fees is $155.00 per hour except where a different hourly rate is specified in this subtitle. Where "DPD hourly rate" is specified in this subtitle, the rate is $155.00 per hour.

 C. Where an hourly ~~fee~~rate is specified, overtime shall be charged at that same rate~~; otherwise~~. Where no hourly rate is specified, overtime shall be charged at ~~a rate of $150.00 per hour~~$155.00 per hour. All overtime shall require approval by the Director. The minimum fee for each overtime request shall be one hour, with minimum increments of one-quarter hour, in addition to other permit fees established by this subtitle.

~~D. The Director may bill an applicant and require payment for accrued hourly or overtime charges at any time in the permit review process.~~

 Section 4. Effective January 1, 2005, Subsections 22.900B.020 C and F of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 22.900B.020 Miscellaneous and special fees.

 ***

 C. Expert Witness Testimony. The fee for expert witness testimony shall be ~~$150.00 per hour~~the DPD hourly rate.

 ***

 F. Special Investigation.

 1. Where a special investigation is made for an action requiring Department approval, a fee in addition to the permit fee shall be assessed as provided in Table B-2.

 Table B-2 - SPECIAL INVESTIGATION FEES

 Value of Work (For Permit) Investigation Fee

 $ 0 - 5,000 ~~150.00~~1 x base fee 5,001 - 50,000 ~~450.00~~3 x base fee 50,001 - 100,000 ~~750.00~~5 x base fee 100,001 - 500,000 ~~1,500.00~~10 x base fee 500,001 - 5,000,000 ~~7,500.00~~50 x base fee Over $5,000,000 100% of permit fee

 2. When a permit fee is not determined by valuation, the special investigation fee will be two times the amount of the permit fee.

 3. Alternatively, at the discretion of the Director, the special investigation fee may be assessed at an hourly rate. Special investigation fees may be waived, at the discretion of the Director, for necessary work done in emergency situations.

 4. The payment of a special investigation fee shall not relieve any person from complying with the requirements of the applicable codes in the execution of the work nor from any violation penalties prescribed by law.

 5. The special investigation fee for a use not established by a permit under the current or previous Land Use Code shall be assessed at ~~a rate of $150.00~~the DPD hourly rate.

 6. Special investigation fees are not refundable.

 ***

 Section 5. Effective January 1, 2005, Subsections 22.900B.030 A and B of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 22.900B.030 Time of collection of fees.

 A. Fees shall be collected at the times specified elsewhere in this Code. If not specified, the minimum fee shall be collected at the time of application. The Director may bill an applicant and require payment for accrued hourly or overtime charges at any time in the permit review process.

 B. The fee collected at the time of application will be based on Department estimates of the total fees due at the time of permit issuance. The final fees will be recalculated during review, and any additional amount due shall be collected prior to the issuance of the permit, approval, denial, decision or recommendation, ~~provided that hourly fees may be collected earlier, as described in Section 22.900B.010 D~~except as provided in Section 22.900A.030A. Any fee in excess of the final calculated fee shall be refunded pursuant to Section 22.900B.050 and other sections of this code.

 ***

 Section 6A. Effective from January 1, 2005 to May 31, 2005, Chapter 22.900C of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 Chapter 22.900C-Fees for Land Use ~~and Zoning~~ Review

 A. Land Use Review Fees.

 The land use review fee for Master Use Permits, Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, environmentally critical area approvals and other miscellaneous reviews, research and services shall be charged according to Table C-1 unless otherwise specified.

 B. Types of Land Use Reviews.

 The fee for applications with one or more Type A components and no Type B components shall be as specified in Table C-1 for Type A land use reviews. The fee for all other applications~~~~~~with one or more Type B land use review and no Type A component~~ shall be as specified in Table C-1 for Type B land use reviews. ~~The fee for applications with both Type A and Type B components shall be as specified in Table C-1 for Type C reviews.~~ Only one minimum review fee shall be charged.

 C. Fee Components of Land Use Review Fees.

 Land use review fees include a minimum land use review fee and may include an hourly fee as specified in Table C-1. The minimum land use review fee covers ~~administrative costs, public notice costs other than environmental review signs, and~~ the number of review hours specified in Table C-1. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate specified in the table.

 D. Time of Payment.

 1. Pre-application Conference Fee. The fee for land use pre- application conference specified in Table C-1 shall be paid prior to the conference.

 2. Minimum Land Use Review Fee. The minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 shall be paid at application submittal. For projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, the Director may require an additional deposit to be made at application submittal and periodic progress payments to be made during the application review process.

 3. The following fees and amounts are due at the times specified below:

 a. All outstanding land use fees shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision or recommendation on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances are due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision or recommendation is required, fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 b. For Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, the fee due to date plus an estimated charge for future work up to and through final Council or Hearing Examiner action shall be paid at the time the recommendation of the Director is available for public review and before it is forwarded for final action. After final Council or Hearing Examiner action, the actual charges and estimated fee paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable upon demand, and prior to issuance of the permit.

 c. For early design guidance projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, all outstanding fees shall be paid upon application for the master use permit. Any hours paid by the minimum land use review fee but not spent at the time of application for the master use permit shall be credited toward land use review of the master use permit application.

 E. Additional Review. In addition to the fees set in Table C-1, review time required on a project prior to, or in lieu of, an application will be charged hourly as determined by the Director.

 F. Correction Penalty Fee. After written notice to the applicant, a penalty fee of $300.00 may be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of response from the applicant.

 Table C-1 - LAND USE FEES

 A. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 Review Hours Covered by Minimum Fee

 Type of Land Minimum Fee Hourly Fee~~1~~ General Low-income Use Review Housing~~2~~1

 A $1,620 $250 20 30 B ~~$2,632~~ $250 10 ~~20~~$2,50024~~C~~~~$3,897~~~~$250~~~~16~~~~26~~

 B. MASTER USE PERMIT and ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS APPROVALS

 Type of Land Use Review Type of Land Use Review

 1. Administrative conditional uses (ACUs) A

 2. Design review

 a. Design review required by SMC 25.11.070 or See Item 19 of 25.11.080 to protect exceptional tree when no other this table. land use reviews are required

 b. Design review elected by applicant for tree See Item 19 of protection this table.

 c. All other design review A

 3. Environmental reviews (SEPA), including projects with more than one addressed site~~3~~2

 a. DNSs, mitigated DNSs, other lead agency project B review

 b. DSs and EISs B; 40 hour deposit is required

 c. EIS addenda/SEIS B; 10 hour deposit is required

~~d. PEIS latecomers fees~~~~Reserved~~

 4. Environmentally critical areas (ECA)

 a. Exemption review See Section 22.900D.145.

 b. Exception and wetland alteration exception A

 c. Yard reduction variance3 B

 d. Buffer reductions and restoration exceptions A

 e. Short plat cluster housing and ACU to recover B development potential

 5. General development plan B

 6. Plan shoreline permit -- See Council concept approvals

 7. Shoreline permits

 a. Substantial development permits B

 b. Variances~~4~~3 and conditional uses B

 c. Revisions (not due to required conditions) See Item ~~39~~41 of this table

 8. Short subdivisions~~5~~4 B

 9. Special exceptions B

 10. Temporary use permit for more than 4 weeks B

 11. Variances~~4~~3 A

 C. COUNCIL and HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS

 Type of Land Use Review Type of Review Fee

 12. Concept approvals ~~(e.g.,~~including, but not B limited to planned community/ residential development, public projects, City facilities, plan shoreline developments, other general development plans)

 13. Council conditional uses B

 14. Full subdivisions~~6~~5 B

 15. Major Institution

 a. Master Plans B; 40 hour deposit is required

 b. Designation B

 16. Zoning map changes and rezones B

 D. MISCELLANEOUS REVIEWS, RESEARCH, AND OTHER SERVICES

 Type of Land Use Review Minimum Hourly Review Land Use Land Use Hours Review Fee Review Covered by Fee~~1~~ Minimum Fee

 17. Concurrency Reserved

 18. Curb cuts as a separate component

 a. single-family residential ~~$62~~ None None  $63 each

 b. other than single-family $125 each None None residential

 19. Design Review for Tree Protection~~7~~6

 a. Design review required by SMC $1,000 ~~$62 10 25.11.070 or 25.11.080 to protect per hour exceptional tree when no other for the land use reviews are required second 10 hours;~~ $250 per hour ~~after 20 hours~~

 b. Design review elected by $0 ~~$62 10 applicant for tree protection per hour for the second 10 hours;~~ $250 per hour ~~after 20 hours~~

 20. Early design guidance $1,500 $250 6

 21. Environmental review sign~~8~~ $370 None None 7

 22. Establishing use for the record $500 250 2

23. Intake appointments for land $155 use reviews; fee is charged for each occurrence

~~23.~~ Interpretations~~9~~824.

 a. Interpretations $1,500 $250 6

 b. Interpretations requested $2,000 $250 8 after publication of Director's report

 c. Major Institution master plan $500 $250 2

~~24.~~ Letters for detailed zoning $1,000 $250 4 25. analysis or permit research

~~25.~~ Lot boundary adjustment $1,250 $250 5 26.

~~26.~~ Major Institution - review of $1,500 per $250 6 27. annual plan year

~~27.~~ Major phased development permit - $500 $250 2 28. minor amendment

~~28.~~ Neighborhood planning Reserved 29.

~~29.~~ Noise survey review and variance See Table D-2 and Section 30. 22.900.F020

~~30.~~ Notice.~~(additional)~~31.All notice is charged based upon type for each occurrence.~~10~~9

 a. Land use information bulletin ~~$125~~~~$250~~~~0.5~~ (GMR notice) $165

 b. ~~Re-p~~Posting large ~~$250~~~~$250~~~~1~~ sign or placards $95

 c. Mailed notice ~~$500~~~~$250~~~~2~~$155

 d. Landslide prone notice ~~$375~~~~$250~~~~1.5~~$155

e. DJC decision publication$160

f. Neighborhood newspaper $160 decision publication

g. Public meeting room rental$50

~~31.~~ Open space remainder lots and $1,000 $250 4 32. surplus state property

~~32.~~ Pre-application conference~~11~~ $100 $250 1 33.10

~~33.~~ Public benefit feature review $500 $250 2 34.

~~34.~~ Records research by the Public $110 $110 1 35. Resource Center

36.Rebuild Lettersa. With Research $110b. Without Research $35

~~35.~~ Renewals including shoreline $500 $250 2 37. renewals

~~36.~~ Revisions other than shoreline $250 $250 1 38. revisions

~~37.~~ School use and school development $2,500 $250 10 39. advisory committee reviews

40.Shoreline exemptions$155

~~38.~~ Shoreline permit revisions not $500 $250 2 41. due to required conditions

~~39.~~ Sidewalk cafés $1,250 $250 5 42.

~~40.~~ Special accommodation $500 $250 2 43.

~~41.~~ Structural building overhangs and $500 $250 2 44. areaways as a separate component

~~42.~~ Vegetation removal~~12~~1145. a. Class A $500 $250 2 b. Class B $250 $250 1 c. Class C $125 $250 0.5

 Notes to Table C-1:

~~1. The hourly fee shall be charged for hours in excess of the review hours covered by the minimum land use review fee.~~

~~2~~1. For purposes of these land use fees, low-income housing is housing that both (1) satisfies the definition of "low- income housing" in SMC 23.84.024; and (2) where at least fifty percent of the total gross floor area of each structure on the site is committed to low-income housing use for at least 20 years.

~~3~~2. A flat fee of $430 shall be assessed by DPD for Determinations of Non-significance (DNSs) and Mitigated Determinations of Non-significance (MDNSs) for projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located within a special review or landmark district. No hourly fees shall be assessed for these types of approvals unless DPD is the lead agency.

~~4~~3. The single variance fee shall be applicable whether the project requires one or multiple variances.

~~5~~4. Includes short subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

~~6~~5. Includes full subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

~~7~~6. This fee applies when design review is initiated only for tree protection and the application has no other Type A or B components.

~~8~~7. The minimum fee is applied to the cost to fabricate, install and remove the environmental review sign. If the sign is removed or defaced before the final City decision, the applicant will be responsible for paying the vendor contracted with the City to repair or replace the sign.

~~9~~8. The fees for interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20, 25.22, and 25.24 shall be collected by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods.

~~10~~9. Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project.

~~11~~10. This fee ~~is not refundable and~~ shall be applied towards the permit application fee if an application for a permit is made within 6 months of the date of the pre-application conference and if the project is identified by address at the time of the pre-application conference. The pre-application conference fee covers a one hour conference. Additional pre-application review time will be charged at the hourly rate. See also Section 22.900C.010.E.

~~12~~11. The three classes are defined by Director's Rule 3-94.

 G. Refunds.

 1. Nonrefundable Fees. Fees for preapplication conferences and environmental signs are not refundable.

 2. Calculating Refunds for Land Use Fees. The amount of land use review fee that may be refunded is calculated as follows.

 a. For refunds requested before a required notice is complete, the amount eligible for refund is 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee plus 100% of the hourly deposit, if any, paid by the applicant.

 b. For refunds requested after notice is complete and for applications for which notice is not required, the amount eligible for refund is the number of hours of review time multiplied by $250, subtracted from the amount paid by the applicant. The amount refunded shall not exceed 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee.

 Section 6B. Effective June 1, 2005, Chapter 22.900C of the Seattle Municipal Code is further amended as follows:

 Chapter 22.900C-Fees for Land Use Review

 22.900C.010 Land use fees.

 A. Land Use Review Fees. The land use review fee for Master Use Permits, Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, environmentally critical area approvals and other miscellaneous reviews, research and services shall be charged according to Table C-1 unless otherwise specified.

~~B. Types of Land Use Reviews. The fee for applications with one or more Type A components and no Type B components shall be as specified in Table C-1 for Type A land use reviews. The fee for all other applications shall be as specified in Table C-1 for Type B land use reviews. Only one minimum review fee shall be charged.~~

~~C~~B. Fee Components of Land Use Review Fees. Land use review fees include a minimum land use review fee and may include an hourly fee as specified in Table C-1. The minimum land use review fee covers the number of review hours specified in Table C-1.  Only~~~~one minimum review fee shall be charged. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate specified in the table.

~~D~~C. Time of Payment.

 1. Pre-application Conference Fee. The fee for land use pre- application conference specified in Table C-1 shall be paid prior to the conference.

 2. Minimum Land Use Review Fee. The minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 shall be paid at application submittal. For projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, the Director may require an additional deposit to be made at application submittal and periodic progress payments to be made during the application review process.

 3. The following fees and amounts are due at the times specified below:

 a. All outstanding land use fees shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision or recommendation on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances are due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision or recommendation is required, fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 b. For Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, the fee due to date plus an estimated charge for future work up to and through final Council or Hearing Examiner action shall be paid at the time the recommendation of the Director is available for public review and before it is forwarded for final action. After final Council or Hearing Examiner action, the actual charges and estimated fee paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable upon demand, and prior to issuance of the permit.

 c. For early design guidance projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, all outstanding fees shall be paid upon application for the master use permit. Any hours paid by the minimum land use review fee but not spent at the time of application for the master use permit shall be credited toward land use review of the master use permit application.

~~E~~D. Additional Review. In addition to the fees set in Table C-1, review time required on a project prior to, or in lieu of, an application will be charged hourly as determined by the Director.

~~F~~E. Correction Penalty Fee. After written notice to the applicant, a penalty fee of $300.00 may be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of response from the applicant.

 Table C-1 - LAND USE FEES

 A. ~~GENERAL PROVISIONS~~MASTER USE PERMIT, ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS, CITY COUNCIL and HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS

~~Review Hours Covered by Minimum Fee~~

 Type of Land Minimum Fee Hourly Fee Review ~~Low-income Use Review Hours Covered Housing1~~ by Minimum Fee ~~General~~

~~A~~~~$1,620~~~~$250~~~~20~~~~30~~

~~B~~ $2,500 $250 10 ~~24~~--General For Items 24--Low 1-16, unless Income otherwise Housing1 noted~~Type of Land Use Review~~~~Type of Land Use Review~~

~~B. MASTER USE PERMIT and ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS APPROVALS~~

 1. Administrative conditional uses (ACUs) ~~A~~ACUs for community centers, child care centers, adult care centers, private schools, religious facilities and public and private libraries in single family and multi-family zones shall be charged a minimum fee of $1,620 for the first 20 hours. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate of $250 per hour. This exception applies when the application is for an ACU only, or an ACU combined only with a variance application.

 2. Design review, except as provided in Item 19

~~a. Design review required by SMC 25.11.070 or ~~See Item 19 25.11.080 to protect exceptional tree when no other of this table.~~~~land use reviews are required

~~b. Design review elected by applicant for tree ~~See Item 19 protection~~~~of this table.

~~c. All other design review~~~~A~~

 3. Environmental reviews (SEPA), including projects with more than one addressed site~~2~~a. A 40 hour deposit is required for DSs and EISs; a 10-hour deposit is required for EIS addenda and SEIS b. A flat fee of $430 shall be assessed by DPD for Determinations of Non-significance (DNSs) and Mitigated Determinations of Non-significance (MDNSs) for projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located within a special review or landmark district; no hourly fees shall be assessed for these types of approvals unless DPD is the lead agency

~~a. DNSs, mitigated DNSs, other lead agency ~~B~~~~project review

~~b. DSs and EISs~~~~B; 40 hour deposit is required~~

~~c. EIS addenda/SEIS~~~~B; 10 hour deposit is required~~

 4. Environmentally critical areas (ECA)

 a. Exemption review- See Section 22.900D.145~~See Section 22.900D.145~~

 b. Exception and wetland alteration exception ~~A~~

 c. Yard reduction variance~~3~~2 ~~B~~

 d. Buffer reductions and restoration exceptions ~~A~~

 e. Short plat cluster housing and ACU to recover ~~B~~ development potential

 5. General development plan ~~B~~

 6. Plan shoreline permit -- See Council concept approvals

 7. Shoreline permits

 a. Substantial development permits ~~B~~

 b. Variances~~3~~2 and conditional uses ~~B~~

 c. Revisions (not due to required conditions)-See ~~See Item 39 Item 41 of this table~~ of this table

 8. Short subdivisions~~4~~3~~B~~

 9. Special exceptions ~~B~~

 10. Temporary use permit for more than 4 weeks ~~B~~

 11. Variances~~3~~2~~A~~Variances for community centers, child care centers, adult care centers, private schools, religious facilities and public and private libraries in single family and multi-family zones shall be charged a minimum fee of $1,620 for the first 20 hours. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate of $250 per hour. This exception applies when the application is for a variance only, or an variance combined only with an ACU application.

~~C. COUNCIL and HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS~~

~~Type of Land Use Review~~~~Type of Land Use Review Fees~~

 12. Concept approvals including, but not limited to ~~B~~ planned community/ residential development, public projects, City facilities, plan shoreline developments, other general development plans)

 13. Council conditional uses ~~B~~

 14. Full subdivisions~~5~~4~~B~~

 15. Major Institution-40 hour deposit is required for Master Plans

~~a. Master Plans~~~~B; 40 hour deposit is required~~

~~b. Designation~~~~B~~

 16. Zoning map changes and rezones ~~B~~

~~D~~B. MISCELLANEOUS REVIEWS, RESEARCH, AND OTHER SERVICES

 Type of Land Use Review Minimum Hourly Review Land Use Land Use Hours Review Fee Review Covered by Fee Minimum Fee

 17. Concurrency Reserved

 18. Curb cuts as a separate component

 a. Single-family residential $63 each None None

 b. Other than single-family $125 each None None residential

 19. Design Review for Tree Protection ~~6~~5

 a. Design review required by SMC $1,000 $250 per 10 25.11.070 or 25.11.080 to protect hour exceptional tree when no other land use reviews are required

 b. Design review elected by $0 $250 per 10 applicant for tree protection hour

 20. Early design guidance $1,500 $250 6

 21. Environmental review sign~~7~~ $370 None None 6

 22. Establishing use for the record $500 $250 2

 23. Intake appointments for land use $155 reviews; fee is charged for each occurrence

 24. Interpretations~~8~~7

 a. Interpretations $1,500 $250 6

 b. Interpretations requested after $2,000 $250 8 publication of Director's report

 c. Major Institution Master Plan $500 $250 2

 25. Letters for detailed zoning $1,000 $250 4 analysis or permit research

 26. Lot boundary adjustment $1,250 $250 5

 27. Major Institution - review of $1,500 per $250 6 annual plan year

 28. Major phased development permit - $500 $250 2 minor amendment

 29. Neighborhood planning Reserved

 30. Noise survey review and variance See Table D-2 and Section 22.900F.020

 31. Notice. All notice is charged based upon type for each occurrence.~~9~~8

 a. Land use information bulletin $165 (GMR notice)

 b. Posting large sign or placards $95

 c. Mailed notice $155

 d. Landslide prone notice $155

 e. DJC decision publication $160

 f. Neighborhood newspaper decision $160 publication

 g. Public meeting room rental $50

 32. Open space remainder lots and $1,000 $250 4 surplus state property

 33. Pre-application conference~~10~~ $100 $250 1 9

 34. Public benefit feature review $500 $250 2

 35. Records research by the Public $110 $110 1 Resource Center

 36. Rebuild Letters

 a. With research $110

 b. Without research $35

 37. Renewals including shoreline $500 $250 2 renewals

 38. Revisions other than shoreline $250 $250 1 revisions

 39. School use and school development $2,500 $250 10 advisory committee reviews

 40. Shoreline exemptions $155 $155 1

 41. Shoreline permit revisions not due $500 $250 2 to required conditions

 42. Sidewalk cafes $1,250 $250 5

 43. Special accommodation $500 $250 2

 44. Structural building overhangs and $500 $250 2 areaways as a separate component

 45. Vegetation removal~~11~~10

 a. Class A $500 $250 2

 b. Class B $250 $250 1

 c. Class C $125 $250 0.5

 Notes to Table C-1:

 1. For purposes of these land use fees, low-income housing is housing that both (1) satisfies the definition of "low-income housing" in SMC 23.84.024; and (2) where at least fifty percent of the total gross floor area of each structure on the site is committed to low- income housing use for at least 20 years.

~~2. A flat fee of $430 shall be assessed by DPD for Determinations of Non-significance (DNSs) and Mitigated Determinations of Non- significance (MDNSs) for projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located within a special review or landmark district. No hourly fees shall be assessed for these types of approvals unless DPD is the lead agency.~~

~~3~~2. The single variance fee shall be applicable whether the project requires one or multiple variances.

~~4~~3. Includes short subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

~~5~~4. Includes full subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

~~6~~5. This fee applies when design review is initiated only for tree protection and the application has no other ~~Type A or B components~~review under Items 1-16.

~~7~~6. The minimum fee is applied to the cost to fabricate, install and remove the environmental review sign. If the sign is removed or defaced before the final City decision, the applicant will be responsible for paying the vendor contracted with the City to repair or replace the sign.

~~8~~7. The fees for interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20, 25.22, and 25.24 shall be collected by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods.

~~9~~8. Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project.

~~10~~9. This fee shall be applied towards the permit application fee if an application for a permit is made within 6 months of the date of the pre-application conference and if the project is identified by address at the time of the pre-application conference. The pre-application conference fee covers a one hour conference. Additional pre-application review time will be charged at the hourly rate. See also Section 22.900C.010.E.

~~11~~10. The three classes are defined by Director's Rule 3-94.

~~G~~F. Refunds.

 1. Nonrefundable Fees. Fees for preapplication conferences and environmental signs are not refundable.

 2. Calculating Refunds for Land Use Fees. The amount of land use review fee that may be refunded is calculated as follows.

 a. For refunds requested before a required notice is complete, the amount eligible for refund is 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee plus 100% of the hourly deposit, if any, paid by the applicant.

 b. For refunds requested after notice is complete and for applications for which notice is not required, the amount eligible for refund is the number of hours of review time multiplied by $250, subtracted from the amount paid by the applicant. The amount refunded shall not exceed 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee.

 Section 7. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900D.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.010 Development permit fees.

 A. General.

 The development fee shall cover the application, review and inspection process associated with new construction, additions, alterations, and repairs to existing buildings and establishment of use. The development fee shall consist of a permit fee and, where plans are reviewed, a separate plan review fee. The permit fee and plan review fee shall be determined based on valuation, except as provided below.

 B. Time of Payment of Fees.

 Fees collected at the time of application will be based on Department estimates of the total fees due at the time of permit issuance. The final Department fees will be recalculated during review, and any additional amount due shall be collected prior to the issuance of the permit, approval, denial, decision or recommendation, provided that hourly fees may be collected earlier, as described in Section 22.900B.010 D. Any fee in excess of the final calculated fee shall be refunded pursuant to Section 22.900B.050 and 22.900D.010 K.

 If, during the initial review, the previously-collected fee is determined to be less than 90% of the estimated fee, the review work subsequent to the initial review will not proceed until the discrepancy is paid to the Department.

 1. Amount Due Prior to Application. Fees for building preapplication conference shall be paid prior to the conference. See 22.900D.010 I for building preapplication conference fees.

 2. Amounts Due at Time of Application. The following amounts are due at the time of application:

 a. Applications for building and/or mechanical permits without plan review shall pay a fee for subject-to-field inspection (STFI) permits equal to the permit fee specified in Table D-2.

 b. Applications for building and/or mechanical permits with plan review shall pay the plan review fee plus one-half the permit fee as specified in Table D-2.

 c. For other applications, the minimum fee shall be collected at the time of application.

 C. Determination of Value.

 1. The Director shall determine the value of construction for which the permit is issued (the estimated current value of all labor and materials, whether actually paid or not, as well as all finish work, painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air- conditioning, elevators, fire-extinguishing systems, automatic sprinkler systems, other mechanical systems, retaining walls, rockeries and any other permanent work or permanent equipment, but not including furnishings). The building valuation data from the International ~~Conference of Building Officials (ICBO) as published in "Building Standards"~~Code Council and other valuation criteria approved by the Director will be used to determine the value of construction.

 2. Dish or Panel Antennae. The fee for processing applications for installation of a dish or panel antenna shall be charged on the value of the foundation and supports constructed for the installation. The value of the dish or panel antenna shall not be included in the determination of value.

 3. The development fee for parks and playgrounds shall be based on the project value, including the value of improvements for structures incidental to the park or playground such as retaining walls, rockeries and restrooms, but shall not include the value of playground equipment.

 4. The valuation shall be based on the highest type of construction to which a proposed structure most nearly conforms, as determined by the Director.

 D. Phased Permits.

 1. When a new building project is proposed to be built in phases and the Director determines that separate development permits may be issued for portions of the project, the development fee for initial permits shall be based on the estimated value of the work under that permit according to Table D-2, except excavating permits shall be based on Section 22.900D.145. The fee for the final permit shall be the fee based on the total value of the new building project minus the sum of the fees for the initial permits, with no credit for an excavation permit fee.

 2. In addition to the fee specified in 22.900.010 D 1 above, where an applicant requests division of an already-submitted permit application with a value of $5,000,000 or less into separate applications, a fee of one times the Base Fee shall be charged for each separate application (including the original application which results from the division). Where the application has a value of more than $5,000,000 the additional fee shall be two times the base fee for each application.

 E. Calculation of Development Fees.

 The development fee for a permit shall be calculated as described in this section. Table D-1 establishes the development fee index for value-based development fees. Except as specified in Section 22.900D.010 F below, Table D-2 establishes the permit fee and plan review fee, calculated as a percentage of the development fee index where determined by value. If two or more buildings are allowed under one permit, they shall be assessed fees as separate buildings under Table D-2. The individual fees shall then be added to determine the total development fee for the permit.

 Table D-1 - CALCULATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT FEE INDEX

 Total Valuation Development Fee Index

 $0.00 to $150.00 for the first $1,000.00 or fraction thereof $1,000.00

 $1,001.00 to $150.00 for the first $1,000.00 plus $1.25 for each $50,000.00 additional $100.00 or fraction thereof

 $50,001.00 to $762.50 for the first $50,000.00 plus $1.00 for each $100,000.00 additional $100.00 or fraction thereof

 $100,001.00 to $1,262.50 for the first $100,000.00 plus $4.75 $250,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $250,001.00 to $1,975.00 for the first $250,000.00 plus $4.50 for $500,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $500,001.00 to $3,100.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $4.25 for $750,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $750,001.00 to $4,162.50 for the first $750,000.00 plus $4.00 for $1,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $1,000,001.00 to $5,162.50 for first $1,000,000.00 plus $3.75 for $2,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $2,000,001.00 to $8,912.50 for first $2,000,000.00 plus $3.50 for $3,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $3,000,001.00 to $12,412.50 for first $3,000,000.00 plus $3.25 for $4,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $4,000,001.00 to $15,662.50 for first $4,000,000.00 plus $3.00 for $5,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $5,000,001.00 to $18,662.50 for the first $5,000,000.00 plus $2.25 $50,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $50,000,001.00 to $119,912.50 for the first $50,000,000.00 plus $1.75 $100,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $100,000,001.00 $207,412.50 for the first $100,000,000.00 plus $1.25 to for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof $200,000,000.00

 $200,000,001.00 $332,412.50 for the first $200,000,000.00 plus $0.75 and up for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 Table D-2 - CALCULATION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES DETERMINED BY VALUE

 Percent of Development Fee Index (DFI) Calculated from Project Value as Specified in Table D-11

 Type of Development Permit Fee Plan Review Fee

 1. Building, with or without 100% of DFI 100% of DFI mechanical, with or without use2,3

 2. STFI (Subject to field 100% of DFI none inspection - building and/or mechanical without plan review)

 3. Reserved Reserved Reserved

 4. Mechanical permit separate 100% of DFI 100% of DFI from building permit3 (see also Section 22.900D.090)

 5. Blanket permit review fees:

 a. Initial tenant alterations ~~$2.00~~~~$2.30~~ within 3 years of first tenant $2.05 per $2.40 per 100 permit within a building where the 100 square feet1 square feet1 area of work is more than 50,000 square feet

 b. Initial tenant alterations 100% of DFI 40% of DFI after 3 years of first tenant permit, and other tenant alterations

 6. Initial tenant alterations 25% of DFI based 25% of DFI based on within 18 months of first tenant on new building new building value permit (nonblanket permit initial value of shell and of shell and core tenant improvements to shell and core core)4

 7. Standard plans:

 a. Establishment of standard plan, 100% of DFI 100% of DFI including temporary structures. (For swimming pools, see Item 14 below)

 b. Establishment of already 100% of DFI None permitted plan as standard plan

 c. Subsequent reviews of standard 100% of DFI 40% of DFI plan, other than temporary structures

 d. Subsequent reviews of standard See Item 15 below See Item 15 below plans for temporary structures

 8. Factory-built housing and Base Fee x 1; base Base Fee x 1 commercial structures fee x 1 for each module up to 10 modules for multistory multifamily structures

Special Development Fees

 Type of Development Permit Fee Plan Review Fee

 9. Establishing use for the record:

 a. Applications with no Base Fee x 1.5 None construction

 b. Applications with construction 100% of DFI 100% of DFI

 10. Noise survey reviews None ~~$150 per hour~~DPD hourly rate ; 30-minute minimum

 11. Parking facilities

 a. Outside a building See Sec. 22.900D.060

 b. Within or on a building See Sec. 22.900D.010 C

 12. Renewal fees

 a. Development permits and ~~$150 per hour~~~~$150 per hour~~ separate mechanical permits where DPD hourly DPD hourly rate original plans will be changed rate

 b. Development permits other than Base fee x 1.5 separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans

 c. Separate mechanical where no Base fee x 1 change will be made to original plans

 13. Special inspection Base fee x 1

 14. Swimming pools5

 a. Unenclosed pools accessory to Base fee x 4 Group R-3 occupancy

 b. Unenclosed pools accessory to Base fee x 6 occupancies other than Group R-3

 c. Principal use unenclosed pools Base fee x 6

 d. Future construction of an Base fee x 1 unenclosed swimming pool

 e. Initial approval of standard Base fee x 5 plan for swimming pool accessory to Group R-3 occupancy

 f. Subsequent review of Base fee x 1.5 application based on approved swimming pool standard plan

 15. Temporary structures, such as Base fee x 2 per commercial coaches; renewal of structure permits for temporary structures6

 16. Temporary tents, off-site Base fee x 2 plus construction offices and similar $500 refundable facilities deposit per site7

 17. Temporary use permits

 a. For 4 weeks or less8 Base fee x 1.5

 b. For more than 4 weeks8 Base fee x 2 Notes to Table D-2:

 1. The minimum permit fee or plan review fee for value-based fees is $150.00.

 2. The minimum fee for accessory dwelling units is $300.00.

 3. When there is no separate mechanical permit, the value of mechanical equipment included in the building permit application shall be included in the project value for the building permit.

 4. This fee is applicable only to those initial tenants that reflect the use and occupancy established in the shell and core permit. The value used shall be the new construction value used in calculating value for the core and shell permit.

 5. When a swimming pool is located within an enclosed building and is included in the building plans for that building, a separate fee shall not be charged for the swimming pool. The swimming pool area will be considered as floor area of the principal occupancy of the building.

 6. This fee shall not apply to any on-site, temporary construction office where a valid building permit is in force.

 7. All costs to the City for site cleanup shall be deducted from the deposit before the deposit is refunded.

 8. Master use permit fees for such temporary uses shall be charged according to Table C-1.

 F. Blanket Permits.

 1. The application fee for a blanket permit to cover initial nonstructural tenant alterations within the first three years of the first tenant alteration permit shall be charged at the rate of ~~$4.30~~$4.45 per 100 square feet of space to be improved within the life of the permit. A deposit based on the estimated value of the work to be completed during the life of the permit shall be collected at the time of application. As individual tenant spaces are reviewed, the amount of the fee equivalent to the floor space examined shall be deducted from the deposit per Table D-2.

 2. The application fee for a blanket permit to cover nonstructural tenant alterations in previously-occupied space, or to cover initial nonstructural tenant alterations after three years of the first tenant alteration permit, is $150.00. A deposit based on the estimated value of the proposed work within 18 months shall be collected at the time of application. As individual tenant spaces are reviewed, the fee for the work to be done shall be calculated according to Table D-2 and deducted from the deposit.

 3. When the estimated blanket fee deposit is used up in less time than the life of the permit and work remains to be done, an additional deposit shall be paid based on the estimated floor area remaining to be improved during the remaining life of the permit. When a portion of the deposit is unused at the end of the life of the permit and work remains to be done, credit for the balance of the deposit may be transferred from the expiring permit to a new blanket permit. To minimize additional accounting costs associated with blanket permits, where more than two deposits are made during the life of the blanket permit, the minimum amount of each subsequent deposit shall be $2,000.00.

 G. Revisions to Issued Permits.

 Fees for revisions to issued permits shall be charged according to standards promulgated by the Director that approximate the additional cost of reviewing the revisions. A nonrefundable fee of one times the Base Fee shall be paid at the time the revisions are submitted.

 H. Certificate of Occupancy. The issuance of a certificate of occupancy for existing buildings, either where no certificate of occupancy has previously been issued or where a change of occupancy is requested, requires a building permit. When there is no construction valuation (there is no work which would require a building permit), the minimum building permit fee shall be assessed. In addition to the minimum building permit fee, where records research, plan examination or inspection is required, charges shall be assessed at the ~~rate of $150 per hour~~DPD hourly rate. Where work is being done as authorized by a permit, the permanent certificate of occupancy fee is not assessed in addition to the building permit fee. The fee for a temporary certificate of occupancy shall be charged at the rate of one-half the Base Fee. The fee for the duplication of a certificate of occupancy is ~~$25.00~~$26.00 unless records research, plan examination or inspection is required, in which case charges shall be assessed at the ~~rate of $150 per hour~~DPD hourly rate.

 I. Building Preapplication Conferences.

 1. Required Building Preapplication Conferences. When there is a requirement for a preapplication or predesign conference, such as buildings subject to the Seattle Building Code special provisions for ~~atria (Section 402)~~atriums (Section 404), or highrise buildings (Section 403), 35% of the estimated plan review fee for the structure shall be charged and paid as specified in Section 22.900D.010 B, and applied toward the development permit fee. (See Table C-1 for land use preapplication conference fees.)

 2. Other Building Preapplication Conferences. When a preapplication conference is requested by the applicant but is not required by Code, a fee equal to one and one-half times the base fee shall be paid no later than the time of the conference. Such fee is required for each meeting held on a project, and will be applied toward the future permit application fee provided:

 a. The project is identified by the proper address at the time of the preapplication conference; and

 b. The permit application is made within six months of the date of the preapplication conference.

 J. Correction Penalty Fee.

 After written notice to the applicant, a penalty fee of $300.00 will be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of adequate response from the applicant.

 K. Refunds.

 1. Refunds of development permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-3. See also Section 22.900B.050.

 2. Refunds shall not be given for the following fees:

 a. Demolition permits;

 b. Renewal or reestablishment of permits; and

 c. Preapplication conferences.

 Table D-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FEES

 I. Application Filed, Permit Not Issued.

 Amount of Permit Fee Amount of Plan Review Eligible for Refund Fee Eligible for Stage in Review Process Based on 50% of Total Refund Based on 100% Permit Fee Calculation1 of Total Plan Review Fee Calculation

 A. Application filed, 40% 90% plans not routed

 B. Plans routed for 20% ~~80%~~ 75% initial review, review not completed

 C. Initial review 0% ~~70%~~60% completed, plans not approved

 D. Initial review 0% ~~60%~~50% completed, routed for first correction review, review of first corrections not completed

 E. Review of first 0% ~~50%~~40% corrections completed , plans not approved

 F. Plans routed for review 0% ~~40%~~30% of second corrections, but review not completed

 G. Review of second 0% ~~30%~~20% corrections completed, plans not approved

 H. Review of third 0% ~~20%~~15% corrections not completed

 I. Review of third 0% 10% corrections completed, plans not approved

 J. Application approved, 0% 0% permit not issued

 II. Permit Issued2

 Stage in Review Process Amount of Permit Fee Amount of Plan Review Eligible for Refund Fee Eligible for Based on 100% of Total Refund Permit Fee Calculation

 Permit issued, work not 25% 0% started

 Permit issued, work started 0% 0%

 Notes to Table D-3:

 1. Fifty percent of the estimated permit fee is paid at the time the application is submitted. The amount refunded before the permit is issued is a percentage of the fifty percent.

 2. After the permit is issued, the entire permit fee has been paid. Therefore, the amount to be refunded after issuance is based on 100 percent of the permit fee.

 L. Renewals.

 Fees for renewal of permits shall be charged according to Table D-2. When the fee for a new permit would be less than one and one-half times the base fee, then the fee to renew the permit shall be the same as for a new permit.

 M. Reestablishment.

 The following fee shall be charged for reestablishment of development permits:

 1. Three times the base fee; plus

 2. If changes are made to the original plans, an additional fee shall be charged for inspection and/or plan examination at ~~$150.00 per hour~~the DPD hourly rate.

 When the fee for a new permit would be less than three times the base fee, then the fee to reestablish the permit shall be the same as for a new permit.

 Section 8. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900D.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.060 Fees for parking facilities outside of buildings.

 A. A fee for parking facilities outside of buildings shall be charged for the review of plans to regrade and resurface existing parking facilities, to reconfigure existing parking facilities (rearrange parking spaces and aisles), to establish parking facilities on existing paved areas, and to establish and construct new parking facilities, whether the principal use of a lot or accessory to another use, as provided in Table D-7. (Parking facilities within buildings shall be charged fees in accordance with Section 22.900D.010.)

 B. In determining the area of the parking facility, all aisles and landscape areas internal to the parking facility shall be included. Driveways to the parking facility and landscape areas on the periphery of the parking facility shall not be included.

 C. These fees shall not apply to any parking facility which is underground and within a structure or on the roof of a structure, or to any extension of a parking facility which is primarily under a building, provided that the uncovered extension is no more than four feet beyond the footprint of the building. The fees for these parking facilities shall be charged in accordance with Section 22.900D.010.

 Table D-7 - PARKING FACILITIES FEES

 Parking Lot Size (Square Fee Without Associated Fee With Associated feet of Gross Parking Building or Use Building or Use Permit2 Area1) Permit2

 Over 4,000 ~~$450.00~~~~$375.00~~Base fee x 3Base fee x 2.5

 2,000-4,000 ~~$375.00~~~~$225.00~~Base fee x 2.5Base fee x 1.5

 Less than 2,000 ~~$150.00~~ No fee Base fee x 1

 Notes to Table D-7:

 1. Where an existing parking facility is being reconfigured, gross parking area shall be the area being reconfigured.

 2. Associated building or use permits are permits that have not expired (or are still going through the review process).

 D. The fee for renewal or reestablishment of a permit for a parking facility is one and one-half times the base fee where there are no changes in the plans. If changes are made to the original plans, an additional fee shall be charged for inspection and/or plan examination at ~~$150.00 per hour~~the DPD hourly rate.

 . Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900D.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.080 Demolitions and relocations.

 A. Demolition. The fee for demolition permits is ~~$225.00~~ one and one-half times the Base Fee.

 B. Relocation other than floating homes.

 1. The fee to relocate a building from within the City to a location outside of the City is ~~$225.00~~one and one-half times the Base Fee (demolition fee) for the site from which the building is moved.

 2. The fee to relocate a building to any location within the City limits includes:

 a. An amount calculated according to Table D-2 as for new construction for the foundation and additions to the building; and

 b. A fee for alterations to the building calculated as for alterations to other buildings; and

 c. ~~$225.00~~One and one-half times the base fee (demolition fee) for the site from which the building is moved.

 3. Relocation permits require a deposit or bond of $10,000.00, refundable upon the completion and approval of the foundation and framing.

 C. Floating Home Relocation. The fee to relocate a floating home shall be charged at the rate of one and one-half times the base fee.

 Section 10. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900D.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.090 Permit fees for mechanical equipment and systems, other than boilers and pressure vessels and refrigeration systems.

 A. Mechanical permit fees for the installation, replacement or major alteration of heating equipment, incinerators and other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances shall be charged as set in Table D-8. Fees shall be charged for each furnace when it is applied for without plans. No separate fee shall be charged for a furnace when it is included in plans for a mechanical air-moving system submitted for a mechanical permit.

 B. Mechanical permits are considered part of a building permit, with no additional fee, when mechanical plans are reviewed at the same time as structural and architectural plans for the same building project. The fees for a separate mechanical permit for installation, alteration or repair of mechanical air-moving systems, including ducts attached thereto, associated nonresidential heating and cooling equipment, and mechanical exhaust hoods, including ducts attached thereto, are charged per Table D-2. See Table D-12 for rates for burners installed in boilers.

 C. The fee to renew or reestablish a furnace permit is one-half the base fee.

 Table D-8 - PERMIT FEES FOR MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

 Type of Installation Fee

 Forced air, gravity-type, or floor furnace, gas ~~$100.00~~$103.00 per unit or oil suspended heater, heat pump, recessed wall heater or floor-mounted space heater, wall furnace, circulating heater or woodstove/fireplace insert including ducts and burners attached thereto

 New gas or oil burners and newly installed used ~~$100.00~~$103.00 per unit gas or oil burners1

 Appliance vents Class A, B, BW or L when ~~$80.00~~$82.40 per unit installed separately

 Mechanical air-moving systems See Table D-2

 Appliances or equipment or other work not Hourly at ~~$150.00 per hour~~ classed in other categories, or for which no the DPD hourly rate. other fee is listed Minimum of one-half hour ~~times the base fee~~.

 D. Refunds. Refunds of mechanical equipment permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-9.

 Table D-9 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT FEES

 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

 Stage in Review Process Amount Eligible for Refund

 Permit is issued; no work 25% started.

 Permit is issued; work 0% (No refund allowed) started.

 Section 11. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900D.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.100 Refrigeration equipment and systems.

 A. Fees for the installation, addition, repair, replacement and alteration of refrigeration equipment and systems shall be charged as set in Table D-10.

 B. Temporary installations of 10 days' duration or less, made for the purposes of exhibition, display or demonstration shall be charged a fee of ~~$45.00~~$46.35 for each installation.

 Table D-10 - REFRIGERATION PERMIT FEES1

 Type or Size of System/Equipment Fee

 Basic fee2 ~~$45.00~~$46.35

 Additional installation fee per compressor

 0-5 HP ~~$ 45.00~~$46.35

 6-25 HP ~~$ 90.00~~$92.70

 26-100 HP ~~$180.00~~$185.40

 101-500 HP ~~$240.00~~$247.20

 Over 500 HP ~~$290.00~~$298.70

 Repair and alteration (value of work)

 $0 - $1,000.00 ~~$45.00~~ $46.35

 $1,001.00 - $5,000.00 ~~$65.00~~$66.95

 $5,001.00 - $10,000.00 ~~$110.00~~$113.30

 Over $10,000.00 ~~$110.00 plus $45.00~~$113.30 plus $46.35/each $5,000.00 or fraction thereof of valuation above $10,000.00

 Notes to Table D-10:

 1. Where the application for permit shows cooling tonnage rather than horsepower, the fees of this table shall apply at a rate of one horsepower equals one ton of cooling capacity.

 2. The basic fee applies to new installations, repairs and alterations.

 C. Refunds. Refunds of refrigeration permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-11.

 Table D-11 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF REFRIGERATION FEES

 REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT

 Stage in Review Process Amount Eligible for Refund

 Permit is issued; no work started. 25%

 Permit is issued; work started 0% (No refund allowed)

 D. The fee to renew or reestablish a refrigeration permit is one-half the base fee.

 Section 12. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900D.110 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.110 New installations and alterations of boilers and pressure vessels.

 A. Fees for the installation of boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged as set in Table D-12. The fee for alteration or repair of boilers and pressure vessels when an inspection is required is a minimum fee of one-half times the base fee and a fee for inspection time beyond the first one-half hour ~~of $150.00 per hour~~at the DPD hourly rate.

 B. The fee to renew or reestablish a boiler permit is one-half the base fee.

 Table D-12 - INSTALLATION PERMIT FEES FOR BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS

 Type Of Installation Fee Installation

 Boilers Heated By Electric Power Combustion Products Input (in KW) Heating Surface (In Square Feet)

 0-250 0-200 ~~$165.00~~$169.95

 250-500 201-400 ~~$245.00~~$252.35

 500-750 401-600 ~~$330.00~~$339.90

 750-1,000 601-800 ~~$475.00~~$489.25

 1,000 Over 800 ~~$600.00~~$618.00

 PressureVessels Length times 1 diameter in square feet

 0-15 ~~$110.00~~$113.30

 15-30 ~~$145.00~~$149.35

 30-50 ~~$210.00~~$216.30

 50-100 ~~$270.00~~$278.10

 100 ~~$330.00~~$339.90

 Burner2 0-12,500,000 Btu/hr ~~$165.00~~$169.95 (each fuel) Over 12,500,000 ~~$255.00~~ $262.65 Btu/hr (each fuel)

 Automatic 0-12,500,000 Btu/hr ~~$165.00~~$169.95 certification (each fuel) Over 12,500,000 Btu/hr ~~$255.00~~$262.65 (each fuel)

 Monitoring Per Boiler ~~$305.00~~$314.15 System

 Notes to Table D-12:

 1. Rating size is the product of the two greatest dimensions of the vessel: diameter X overall length for the cylindrical vessels; maximum width X maximum length for rectangular vessels.

 2. When a burner is installed in conjunction with a boiler, a separate fee shall not be charged for the burner.

 Section 13. Effective January 1, 2005, Subsections 22.900D.130 B and C of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 22.900D.130 Shop and field assembly inspections.

 ***

 B. Fees for shop and field assembly inspection of boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged at the same rate as the installation fees for the equipment or at ~~an hourly rate of $150.00 per hour~~the DPD hourly rate, with a minimum fee charged at the rate of one times the base fee for any one inspection.

 C. Fees for inspection requested for other than shop and field assembly inspection shall be charged at ~~an hourly rate of $150.00 per hour~~the DPD hourly rate, with a minimum fee charged at the rate of one times the base fee for any one inspection.

 ***

 Section 14. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900D.140 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.140 New installations and alterations of elevators and other conveyances.

 A. Permit fees for new installations and relocations of passenger or freight elevators, automobile parking elevators, escalators, moving walks, material lifts, dumbwaiters, lifts, private residence elevators and other conveyances shall be charged as set forth in Table D-13.

 B. The permit fee for alterations and repairs to existing elevators, escalators, lifts, moving walks, dumbwaiters, and other conveyances shall be charged on a valuation basis as set forth in Table D-13, provided that in no case shall the fee for alteration or repair exceed the fee if the same were a new installation.

 C. The fee for a temporary, 60-day operating permit is one times the base fee.

 D. The fee to renew or reestablish an elevator permit is one-half the base fee.

 Table D-13 -PERMIT FEES FOR ELEVATORS AND OTHER CONVEYANCES1,2,3,4

 Type of Conveyance Fee

 New Installations and Relocations

 Hydraulic elevators ~~$430.00~~$442.90 plus ~~$37.50~~$38.65  per hoistway opening

 Cabled geared and gearless ~~$825.00~~$849.75 plus elevators ~~$62.50~~$64.40 per hoistway opening

 Residential hydraulic and cabled ~~$325.00~~$334.75 elevators

 Dumbwaiters, manual doors ~~$156.00~~$160.70 plus ~~$19.00~~$19.60 per hoistway opening

 Dumbwaiters, power doors ~~$156.00~~$160.70 plus ~~$44.00~~$45.30 per hoistway opening

 Escalators and moving walks ~~$1,225.00~~$1261.75 plus the following (width in inches + run in feet + vertical rise in feet) x ~~$3.75~~$3.85

 Accessibility lifts (vertical and ~~$250.00~~$257.50 inclined)

 Material lifts ~~$300.00~~$309.00

 Alterations and Repairs

 Accessibility lifts (vertical and ~~$125.00~~$128.75 plus inclined) ~~$19.00~~$19.60 for each $1,000 of construction value or fraction thereof

 Other elevators, escalators, walks, ~~$150.00~~$155.00 plus dumbwaiters and lifts ~~$25.00~~$25.75 for each $1,000 of construction value or fraction thereof

 Elevator cosmetic alterations only:

 Weight differential less than or ~~$150.00~~$155.00 plus equal to 5% ~~$25.00~~$25.75 for each $1,000.00 of construction value or fraction thereof, to a maximum fee of ~~$300.00~~$309.00

 Weight differential greater than 5% ~~$150.00~~$155.00 plus ~~$25.00~~$25.75 for each $1,000.00 of construction value or fraction thereof

 Alteration or replacement of a door ~~$180.00~~$185.40 per opening device opening device

 Notes to Table D-13:

 1. Each separately-powered unit is considered a separate conveyance. Applications and permits shall be issued accordingly. (See Seattle Building Code Section 3006.1.)

 2. Installation fees include charges for electrical equipment installed in connection with any conveyance and such equipment shall not be subject to a separate electrical permit and fee.

 3. Each of these fees includes a nonrefundable portion in the amount of one times the base fee.

 4. The fee for alteration and repair shall not exceed the fee for the same device if installed as new.

 Section 15. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900D.145 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.145 Site review fee.

 A. The fees for plan review and inspection of the following are as provided in this section and Table D-SR:

 1. Land-disturbing activity as defined in the Stormwater, Grading and Drainage Control Code SMC 22.801.130; and

 2. Drainage, including temporary drainage and erosion and sedimentation control.

 B. The minimum fees for site review are specified in Table D-SR, and shall be paid at the time specified in the table. Hourly fees due in addition to the minimum fee will be calculated during review. Payment of hourly fees is due at the times specified in Table D-SR or may be charged in accordance with Section 22.900B.010.

 C. The charge for review time, including inspections, in excess of the time included in the minimum fee is ~~$150.00 per hour~~ the DPD hourly rate.

 D. The fee for third-party review as specified in the environmentally critical areas regulations, Seattle Municipal Code Section 25.09.080 C, and for shoring review, is the contract cost to the Department for the review plus an amount equal to 15% of the contract amount for administration and review of the third-party geotechnical report and professional opinion. Seventy-five percent of the estimated contract amount shall be paid prior to the contract award.

 E. Site review fees are nonrefundable.

 Table D-SR SITE REVIEW FEE

 Type of Site Minimum Fee Time at Which Review Time Time at Which Review Minimum Fee is Included in Hourly Fees are Due Minimum Fee Due

 1. ~~$113~~ At the time of 3/4 hour At the time of Pre-application 3/4 hour application application site inspection at the DPD intake intake hourly rate

 2. Drainage and ~~$150~~ At the time of 1 hour At the time of grading separate One hour application permit issuance from a at the DPD intake development hourly permit rate

 3. Review to ~~$75$75~~ At the time of 1/2 hour At the time of determine 1/2 application decision Environmentally intake Critical Area hour at the exemptions1 DPD hourly rate

 4. Site located ~~$375~~ At the time of 21/2 hours At the time of in 21/2 application permit issuance Environmentally hours at intake Critically Area the DPD unless fully hourly rate exempt from ECA standards

 5. Sites ~~None-fee ~~Not Not Applicable At the time of requiring either will be Applicable~~~~permit issuance Geotechnical or charged for At the time Drainage review each hour of permit or both of review issuance DPD hourly rate, 1/4 hour minimum.

 6. Post-issuance ~~$150~~ At the time of One hour times At the time of site inspection The DPD permit the minimum final and other review hourly issuance number of inspection, rate times required issuance of the minimum inspections Certificate of number of Occupancy or required permit inspections2 expiration

 Notes to Table D-SR:

 1. The fee for review of exemptions applies to all levels of exemption.

 2. When the permit is issued, the minimum number of required inspections shall be determined according to rules promulgated by the Director. The charge for review time, including inspections, in excess of the time included in the minimum fee is ~~$150.00 per hour~~the DPD hourly rate.

 Section 16. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900D.150 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.150 Electrical permit fees.

 A. Permit Fees When Plans and Specifications Are Reviewed.

 1. Permit fees for electrical installations for which plans and specifications are reviewed by the Director shall be charged on a valuation basis as set forth in Table D-14.

 2. When approved by the Director to submit plans for advance plan examination, 50% of the estimated permit fee shall be collected at the time of the permit application and plan submittal.

 3. The Director shall determine the value of the construction, which is the value to the vendee of all labor, material, fittings, apparatus and the like, whether actually paid for or not, supplied by the permit holder and/or installed by the permit holder as a part of, or in connection with, a complete electrical system, but which does not include the cost of utilizing equipment connected to the electrical system. The Director may require verification of the stated cost of any work subject to these fees.

 When the cost of any proposed installation is unknown, an estimate of the cost shall be made and used to compute the permit fee.

 The permit fee specified in Table D-14 is due at the time of application. Upon completion of the installation, a fee adjustment may be made in favor of the City or the permit holder, if requested by either party.

 4. When a duplicate set of approved plans is submitted for examination and approval at any time after a permit has been issued on the original approved plans, hourly charges for Departmental work shall be assessed.

 B. Permit Fees When Plans and Specifications Are Not Required.

 1. Permit fees for electrical installations, additions and alterations for which plans and specifications are not required shall be as set forth in Table D-15. The permit fee specified in Table D-15 is due at the time of application.

 2. Permit fees for temporary electrical installations shall be charged for services only at the rate set forth in Table D-15.

 C. Phased Permits.

 1. When an electrical project is proposed to be installed in phases and the Director determines that separate electrical permits may be issued for portions of the project, the permit fee for the initial permits shall be based on the estimated value of the work under that permit according to Table D-14. The fee for the final permit shall be the fee based on the total value of the electrical installations minus the sum of the values of the initial permits.

 2. Where an applicant requests that an application for a permit be divided into separate applications subsequent to the initial submittal of a unified application, an additional fee shall be charged at the rate of one times the base fee for each separate application which results from the division.

 Table D-14 - ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES (When Plans are Reviewed)

 Total Valuation Fee

 $0.00 to $1,000.00 $150.00 for the first $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,001.00 to $150.00 for the first $1,000.00 plus $6.25 for each $5,000.00 additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $5,001.00 to $400.00 for the first $5,000.00 plus $2.50 for each $50,000.00 additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,001.00 to $1,525.00 for the first $50,000.00 plus $2.00 for 100,000.00 each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,001.00 to $2,525.00 for the first $100,000.00 plus $10.00 for $250,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $250,001.00 to $4,025.00 for the first $250,000.00 plus $9.50 for $500,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $500,001.00 to $6,400.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $9.00 for $750,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $750,001.00 to $8,650.00 for the first $750,000.00 plus $8.50 for $1,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,000,001.00 to $10,775.00 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus $8.00 for $2,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $2,000,001.00 to $18,775.00 for the first $2,000,000.00 plus $7.50 for $3,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $3,000,001.00 to $26,275.00 for the first $3,000,000.00 plus $7.00 for $4,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $4,000,001.00 to $33,275.00 for the first $4,000,000.00 plus $6.50 for $5,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $5,000,001.00 to $39,775.00 for the first $5,000,000.00 plus $5.50 for $50,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,000,001.00 to $287,275.00 for the first $50,000,000.00 plus $4.50 $100,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,000,001.00 to $512,275.00 for the first $100,000,000.00 plus $3.50 $200,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $200,000,001.00 and $862,275.00 for the first $200,000,000.00 plus $1.50 up for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 Table D-15 - ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES* (When Plans are Not Required)

 1. Administrative Fee

 a. An administrative fee of ~~$55.00~~$56.65 will be charged for items 2 through 8 and 10 in addition to the other fees specified in this table.

 b. An administrative fee of ~~$40.00~~$41.20 will be charged when work is added to an existing permit and when other information is changed.

 2. Services Size Fee

 a. Services (installation, 1 - 125A ~~$64.50~~$66.45 relocation and temporary 126 - 200A ~~$106.50~~$109.70 installations; size based 201 - 300A ~~$148.50~~$152.95 on conductor ampacity) 301 - 400A ~~$213.00~~$219.40 401 - 500A ~~$255.00~~$262.65 501 - 599A $~~310.50~~$319.85

 b. Temporary construction Any ~~$64.50~~$66.45 power for single-family residence

 3. Feeders1

 Size 120v only 208v-480v >480v

 15-25A ~~$10.50~~~~$10.50~~~~$22.50~~$10.80$10.80$23.20

 30-50A ~~$22.50~~~~$22.50~~~~$45.00~~$23.20$23.20$46.35

 60-125A ~~$33.75~~~~$33.75~~~~$67.50~~$34.75$34.75$69.55

 150-225A ~~$45.00~~~~$90.00~~ $46.35 $92.70

 250-400A ~~$110.00~~ $~~135.00~~$113.00$139.05

 450 & above ~~$165.00~~~~$211.50~~$169.95$217.85

 4. Connections, Devices and Branch Circuits2

 a. Connections Fee

 Light outlet, switches, ~~$1.35~~$1.40 each receptacles, fixtures3, residential-type fan

 Track lighting or ~~$1.35~~$1.40 for multi-outlet assembly every 2 feet of track

 b. Devices and Branch Circuits

 Dimmer (commercial 2,000 ~~$12.90~~$13.30 watt or over) each

 Non-electric furnace4 ~~$10.50~~$10.80 each

 Dedicated appliances & utilization circuits (cord and plug or direct wired)

 (15-25A) ~~$10.50~~$10.80 each

 (30-50A) ~~$22.50~~$23.20 each

 Range ~~$22.50~~$23.20 each

 Water heater (220 volt) ~~$22.50~~$23.20 each

 Floodlight5 ~~$4.80~~$4.95  each

 Sign ~~$28.50~~$29.35 each

 5. Transformer Installations6 Fee

 Up to 300 VA ~~$4.80~~$4.95

 300 VA to 6 KVA ~~$10.50~~$10.80

 7 KVA to 15 KVA ~~$33.75~~$34.75

 16 KVA to 30 KVA ~~$45.00~~$46.35

 31 KVA to 45 KVA ~~$64.50~~$66.45

 46 KVA to 75 KVA ~~$106.50~~$109.70

 76 KVA to 112.5 KVA ~~$213.00~~$219.40

 113 KVA to 225 KVA ~~$255.00~~$262.65

 > 225 KVA ~~$310.50~~$319.80

 6. Motor Installations Fee

Up to 1/3 HP ~~$4.80~~$4.95

 1/3 HP to 3/4 HP ~~$10.50~~$10.80

 1 HP to 3 HP ~~$16.05~~$16.55

 4 HP to 5 HP ~~$20.40~~$21.00

 6 HP to 10 HP ~~$22.50~~$23.20

 11 HP to 20 HP ~~$37.50~~$38.65

 21 HP to 50 HP ~~$64.80~~$66.75

 51 HP to 100 HP ~~$88.95~~$91.65

 101 HP to 200 HP ~~$182.85~~$188.35

 Over 200 HP ~~$200.55~~$206.60

 7. Electric Furnaces and Heaters Fee

 Up to 2 KW ~~$4.80~~$4.95

 2 KW to 5 KW ~~$10.50~~$10.80

 6 KW to 15 KW ~~$14.40~~$14.85

 16 KW to 30 KW ~~$28.35~~$29.20

 31 KW to 50 KW ~~$61.20~~$63.05~~$99.75~~$102.75

 51 KW to 100 KW

 101 KW to 200 KW ~~$243.00~~$250.30

 Over 200 KW ~~$405.00~~$417.15

 8. Low-voltage and Communication Fee Systems

 a. Low-voltage Requires separate permit for each systems7-sound systems, system security systems, fire alarms, nurse call, industrial controls and similar

 Control unit ~~$4.00~~$4.10 each

 Device (actuating, horn, ~~$1.00~~$1.05 each alarm, etc.)

 Control systems (>100 volts) shall be based on the feeder schedule.

 b. Communications systems8-voice cable, data cable, coaxial cable, fiber optics and similar. The maximum fee is ~~$352.50~~$363.10.

 Control unit ~~$4.00~~$4.10 each

 Outlet ~~$1.00~~$1.05 each

 9. Special Events

 a. Inspections occurring during normal business hours-~~$75.00~~~~for first one-half hour; $150.00 per hour for additional time~~Hourly at the DPD hourly rate; minimum one-half hour

 b. Inspections occurring outside normal business hours-~~$225.00~~ Hourly at the DPD hourly rate; minimum one and one-half hour

 10. Inspections for which no other fee is listed, including but not limited to Conditional Work and "Get Started" permits

 Each ~~$150.00 per hour~~Hourly at the DPD hourly rate; minimum one-half hour

 *See Electrical Code for permit exemptions

 Table D-16 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF ELECTRICAL FEES

 ELECTRICAL: FOR PLAN REVIEW OR OVER-THE-COUNTER (OTC) PERMITS

 Stage in Review/Inspection Process Amount Eligible for Refund

 Permit filed, plan review required 100% minus 1/2-hour processing fee but not started

 Plan review started or completed, no 100% minus the sum of the following: inspections any accrued hourly charges for plan review

 Plan review completed/permit issued 100% minus the sum of the following: and inspection(s) made, permit not any accrued hourly charges for plan finaled review + 1/2-hour charge for each inspection made

 Advance plan review process 100% of fee paid minus the sum of the completed but permit not issued following: any hourly charges for plan review

 Permit issued (OTC) (no plan review 100% minus the sum of the following: required) no inspection(s) requested ~~$55.00~~$56.65 + 1/2-hour charge for one inspection

 Permit issued (OTC) (no plan review 100% minus the sum of the following: required) Inspection(s) made, permit ~~$55.00~~$56.65 + 1/2-hour not finaled charge for each inspection made

 Sign permit filed, plan review 100% minus 1/2-hour processing fee required, no inspections made

 Sign permit filed, plan review 100% minus the sum of the following: required, inspections made, permit 1/2-hour processing fee + 1/2-hour charge not finaled for each inspection made

 Any permit finaled No refund

 Section 17. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900D.160 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.160 Sign, ~~billboard,~~ awning and canopy permit fees.

 A. Permanent signs. For permanent signs, a permit fee of ~~$120.00~~$123.60 shall be charged for the first 100 square feet or less of the total display area of the sign plus an additional charge of ~~$10.00~~$10.30 for each ten square feet or fraction thereof of total display area in excess of 100 square feet. Each sign or group of signs for a single business entity installed simultaneously on a single structure shall be charged a separate permit fee per business entity. The addition of a sign or group of signs for one business entity to the structure requires a separate permit.

 B. Sign Measurements. All signs erected or painted simultaneously for a single business entity, provided they are on a single structure, shall be measured together and assessed a fee as if a single sign. Directional ground signs between 5 and 7 square feet may be measured together and assessed a fee as if a single sign.

 C. Sign Area. For the purpose of this section, sign area shall be measured in accordance with Section 23.86.004 of the Land Use Code.

 D. Wall Signs. The maximum fee for signs painted on or otherwise applied directly to the building wall without a frame or mechanical fasteners is ~~$457.50~~$471.25.

 E. Awnings and Canopies. A separate permit fee is required for the installation of awnings and canopies. The fee assessed for the installation is based on the valuation of the awning or canopy and is 100% of the development fee index as calculated according to Table D- 1. This fee is separate from the fee for any sign on the awning or canopy.

 F. Signs on Awnings and Canopies. A permit fee separate from the awning permit fee is required for a sign installed or painted on an awning or canopy. Signs for separate business entities are assessed a separate fee whether or not on a separate awning or canopy. All signs for each business entity installed concurrently on an awning or canopy shall be measured to determine the total square footage and shall be assessed a fee as though one sign. The subsequent addition of a sign or group of signs for one business entity requires a separate permit.

 G. Time of Payment. Permit fees for signs, awnings and canopies shall be paid at the time of application.

 H. Renewal and Reestablishment. The fee to renew or reestablish a sign, awning or canopy permit is one-half the base fee.

 Section 18. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900E.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900E.010 Off-premises advertising sign (billboard) registration fees.

 A registration fee of ~~$60.00~~$61.80 shall be charged initially to establish and annually to renew each face of an off- premises advertising sign (billboard). The renewal fees are due on or before July 1, 2002 and on July 1 of each subsequent year.

 Section 19. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900E.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900E.020 Boiler and pressure vessel certificates of operation.

 The fee for certificates of operation for boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged in accordance with Table E-1. Where the inspection is performed by the City, the certificate fee includes the certificate of operation, the inspection and one reinspection, if necessary.

 Table E-1 - FEES FOR CERTIFICATES OF OPERATION FOR BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS

 Type of Reinspection and Installation Certificate Fee1

 Boilers3 Heating By Heated By Combustion Electricity Products Electric Power Heating Surface Input (In KW) (In Square Feet)

 0-250 0-200 ~~$97.50~~$100.45

 251-500 201-400 ~~$183.00~~$188.50

 501-750 401-600 ~~$267.00~~$275.00

 751-1,000 601-800 ~~$412.50~~$424.90

 Over 1,000 Over 800 ~~$510.00~~$525.30

 Controls and limit Automatic boilers Annual devices for (input) automatic boilers 0-12,500,000 Btu ~~$97.50~~ (Charged in Over 12,500,000 $100.45 addition to those ~~$121.50~~ fees listed above) $125.15

 Monitoring systems Annual for automatic ~~$243.00~~ boiler (Charged in $250.30 addition to those fees listed above)

 Unfired pressure Rating Size Biennial vessels1,2,3 0-15 ~~$55.50~~ 16-30 $57.20 31-50 ~~$97.50~~ 51-100 $100.45 Over 100 ~~$159.00~~$163.80~~$207.00~~$213.25~~$304.50~~$313.65

 Domestic water Biennial ~~$37.50~~ heaters located in $38.65 Group A, E or I occupancy

 Notes to Table E-1:

 1. Fees for boiler and pressure vessels which are inspected by authorized insurance company inspectors are 50% of those set forth in Table E-1; provided, that the 50% rate shall not apply to the charges for controls and limit devices for automatic boilers specified in Table E-1, and further provided that no fee shall be less than the minimum.

 2. Rating size is the product of the two greatest dimensions of the vessel: diameter X overall length for the cylindrical vessels; maximum width X maximum length for rectangular vessels.

 3. Fees for low-pressure hot water supply boilers installed prior to January 1, 1989, consisting of tanks whose contents are heated by electric elements shall be charged at the same rates that apply to unfired vessels of the same size.

 Section 20. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900E.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900E.030 Fees for elevator certificates of inspection.

 A. Certificates of inspection for elevators will be issued upon acceptance inspection and for each subsequent annual reinspection after payment of the fee set in Table E-2.

 B. The fee for renewal of a certificate of inspection to operate any conveyance is as set in Table E-2.

 Table E-2 - FEES FOR ELEVATOR CERTIFICATES OF INSPECTION1

 Type of Conveyance Fee for Each Conveyance

 Hydraulic elevators ~~$137.50~~$141.65

 Cable elevators2, 3 ~~$187.50~~$193.15 plus ~~$14.00~~$14.45 for each hoistway opening in excess of two

 Sidewalk elevators ~~$125.00~~$128.75

 Hand-powered elevators ~~$125.00~~$128.75

 Dumbwaiters ~~$125.00~~$128.75

 Escalators and moving walks ~~$187.50~~$193.15

 Accessibility lifts (vertical and ~~$125.00~~$128.75 inclined)

 Material lifts ~~$125.00~~$128.75

 Fire emergency systems, Phase I or ~~$62.50~~$64.40 both Phase I and Phase II

 Notes to Table E-2:

 1. Each separately-powered unit is considered a separate conveyance. Separate applications and permits are required for each conveyance. (See Section 3006.1, Seattle Building Code.)

 2. Elevators having a continuous hoistway wall of 100 feet or more without openings shall be charged a fee of ~~$306.00~~$315.20 plus ~~$14.00~~$14.45 for each hoistway opening in excess of two.

 3. The fee for roped hydraulic elevators is the same as cable elevators.

 Section 21. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900E.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900E.040 Refrigeration systems annual operating permit fee.

 The annual operating permit fee for any refrigeration system is calculated according to Table E-3. The fee for multiple systems on a single premises is based upon the total motor horsepower at the premises.

 Table E-3 - REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS ANNUAL OPERATING FEES

 Size of Equipment Fee

 0 - 50 HP ~~$88.50~~$91.20

 51 - 100 HP ~~$135.00~~$139.05

 Over 100 HP ~~$189.00~~$194.70

 Over 100 HP (Type 2 refrigerant) ~~$277.50~~$285.30

 Section 22. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900E.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900E.050 Boiler,~~and~~ refrigeration and gas piping licenses and examinations.

 Fees for boiler, refrigeration and gas piping examination and annual license fees, payable in advance, shall be charged as set in Table E- 4.

 Table E-4 - FEES FOR BOILER ~~AND~~ REFRIGERATION, AND GAS PIPING LICENSES AND EXAMINATIONS

 License Fees:1

 Refrigeration contractor

 Class A ~~$150.00~~$155.00

 Class B ~~$150.00~~$155.00

 Class C ~~$240.00~~$247.20

 Air-conditioning contractor ~~$150.00~~$155.00

 Refrigeration service shop ~~$67.50~~$69.55

 Journeyman refrigeration mechanic ~~$67.50~~$69.55

 Refrigeration service shop mechanic ~~$67.50~~$69.55

 Industrial refrigeration engineer ~~$67.50~~$69.55

 Refrigeration operating engineer ~~$67.50~~$69.55

 Steam engineers and boiler firemen (all ~~$67.50~~$69.55 grades)

 Boiler supervisor, all grades ~~$75.00~~$77.25

 Gas piping mechanic ~~$67.50~~$69.55

 Examination fees - all licenses ~~$30.00~~$30.90

 Note to Table E-4:

 1. When a license is issued that will expire in less than six months from the date of issuance, the fee is one-half the annual fee.

 Section 23. Effective January 1, 2005, Subsection 22.900E.060 C of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900E.060 Registration of special inspectors.

 ***

 C. The fee for renewal of a special inspector certificate of registration covering one or more types of inspection for which the registrant has been qualified is ~~$37.50~~$38.65.

 ***

 Section 24. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900F.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900F.010 Monitoring vacant buildings.

 A. A quarterly reinspection fee shall be charged as set forth in Table F-1 for reinspections of buildings closed pursuant to or in response to the requirements of the Housing and Building Maintenance Code. Building and premises shall be maintained per the standards of the Housing and Building Maintenance Code, Land Use Code, Solid Waste Code and Weeds and Vegetation Ordinance.

 Table F-1 - MONITORING VACANT BUILDINGS

 Condition of Premises Fee

 Building is closed to entry and premises are in ~~$165.00~~ compliance with applicable codes $169.95

 Building is closed to entry and premises are not in ~~$275.00~~ compliance with applicable codes $283.25

 Building is not closed to entry regardless of compliance ~~$330.00~~ with applicable codes $339.90

 B. The Department shall send a bill to the taxpayer and/or owner of record of each property inspected.

 Section 25. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900F.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900F.020 Noise fees.

 A. Certain construction and land use proposals require noise survey reviews. Project review shall be charged according to Table F-2. Any hourly fees owed shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision is required, hourly fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 B. Applications for noise variances shall be charged according to Table F-2, except for applications for temporary noise variances as components of a master filming permit issued pursuant to SMC Section 15.35.010 which shall be charged as part of the single fee for the master filming permit. In addition to the amounts specified in Table F-2, applicants shall reimburse the Department for actual costs associated with review of the application.

 The fee for renewal of noise variances is the same as for new applications.

 Fees for noise variances are not refundable.

 Table F-2 - NOISE FEES

 Type Permit Fee Project Review Fee

 Temporary noise variance ~~$150~~ None (No separate fee when issued $155.00 as part of a master filming permit)

 Economic/technical variance in ~~$100~~~~$125 per hour~~DPD hourly residential zones $103.00 rate, (2-hour deposit)

 Economic/technical variance in ~~$250~~~~$125 per hour~~DPD commercial/industrial zones $257.50 hourly rate, (2-hour deposit)

 Noise survey reviews See Table D-2 See Table D-2

 Section 26. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 22.900F.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900F.050 House barge licenses. The fee for a house barge license is ~~$330.00~~$340.00. The fee to renew a house barge license is ~~$165.00~~$170.00.

 Section 27. Effective January 1, 2005, Subsection 22.900G.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended to add a new subsection D as follows:

D. Major Institution Citizen Advisory Committee Fees. The fee for convening and staffing of Citizen Advisory Committees for the routine annual review of approved master plans is $95 per hour. The fee for convening and staffing of Citizen Advisory Committees for new master plans and for amendments to master plans is $45 per hour.

 Section 28. Effective January 1, 2005, a new Section 22.900G.050 is added to read as follows:

 22.900G.050 Presubmittal conferences for other departments. The Department is authorized to collect fees for Seattle Public Utilities, Seattle Department of Transportation, Department of Parks and Recreation, Seattle Fire Department, Seattle City Light, and Seattle- King County Department of Public Health for presubmittal conferences and presubmittal coordination. The amount to be charged by each department shall be set by the departments.

 Section 29. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person, owner, or circumstance shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance, or the validity of its application to other persons, owners, or circumstances.

 Section 30. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 11/16/04 V7 t

```
