

********

**Council Bill Number: 115028**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121603**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing Seattle Public Utilities to enter into a memorandum of agreement regarding the construction, funding and maintenance of a natural drainage system pilot project at Seattle Housing Authority's High Point Redevelopment.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 20, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 1, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 28, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 13, 2004
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Technology
   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON
   
   
**Index Terms:** HIGH-POINT, SEATTLE-HOUSING-AUTHORITY, DRAINAGE, FLOOD-CONTROL-AND-DRAINAGE LONGFELLOW-CREEK

**Fiscal Note:**115028

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE authorizing Seattle Public Utilities to enter into a memorandum of agreement regarding the construction, funding and maintenance of a natural drainage system pilot project at Seattle Housing Authority's High Point Redevelopment.

 WHEREAS, Seattle Housing Authority ("SHA") is redeveloping its High Point Garden Community (the "High Point Redevelopment"), which comprises nearly ten percent of the Longfellow Creek Watershed; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities ("SPU") and SHA have collaborated in the design and construction of an natural drainage system ("NDS") pilot project that is expected to enhance the stormwater flows to Longfellow Creek, one of Seattle's most important salmon habitats; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle has approved the NDS in the final subdivision and street improvement plans for the High Point Redevelopment; and

 WHEREAS, SHA will fund all traditional infrastructure elements and SPU desires to fund the NDS pilot project; and

 WHEREAS, the City has authorized the acceptance of two grants and a low-interest loan to implement the NDS pilot project in the High Point Redevelopment; and

 WHEREAS, the NDS is included as the High Point Drainage System (C301303) in City's 2004-2009 Capital Improvement Program; and

 WHEREAS, the High Point Natural Drainage, Landscape, Open Space and Rights of Way Maintenance Association, a Washington nonprofit corporation, (the "High Point Association"), has been incorporated to, among other things, maintain the surface landscape portions of the NDS, following its construction by SHA; and

 WHEREAS, SHA, SPU and the High Point Association desire to enter into a memorandum of agreement to set forth their respective responsibilities for the funding, construction and maintenance of the NDS at the High Point Redevelopment; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities or his designee is authorized to enter into a memorandum of agreement substantially in the form attached to this ordinance as Attachment A regarding the construction, funding and maintenance of the NDS pilot project at the High Point Redevelopment.

 Section 2. Any acts consistent with but prior to the effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment A: Memorandum of Agreement for Natural Drainage System

 August 13, 2004 version # 1

 Memorandum of Agreement For Natural Drainage System

 This Memorandum of Agreement for Natural Drainage System ("MOA") is entered into by the City of Seattle, acting by and through Seattle Public Utilities ("SPU"), the Seattle Housing Authority ("SHA"), and the High Point Natural Drainage, Landscape, Open Space and Rights of Way Maintenance Association.

 Recitals

 A. SHA has proposed the redevelopment of the High Point Garden Community ("High Point Redevelopment") in two phases ("Phase I" and "Phase II," as applicable). The City of Seattle has approved the preliminary and final subdivision of the High Point Redevelopment.

 B. The High Point Redevelopment incorporates a natural drainage system ("NDS") pilot project to manage stormwater on site, with the expected result of lessening the negative effects of stormwater runoff on Longfellow Creek. Because the High Point Redevelopment makes up nearly ten percent of the Longfellow Creek Watershed, SPU and SHA have collaborated in the design and construction of the NDS pilot project.

 C. The NDS relies on a series of surface swales for managing stormwater. Instead of using a conventional urban system that employs curb and gutter, catch basins and underground piping to convey stormwater off site, the NDS uses soil, topography and vegetation to store, purify and infiltrate stormwater on site. The NDS includes a series of swales supported by conveyance pipes, drainage structures and stormwater pond, engineered soils, curb cuts, porous concrete walks, one block length of porous concrete street for Phase I of the High Point Redevelopment and up to two more blocks of porous concrete for Phase II of the High Point Redevelopment.

 D. SHA and SPU share the common goal of constructing, commissioning and maintaining a drainage system that meets SHA's community design goals of creating the look of a traditional neighborhood while fulfilling SPU's stormwater management goals. SHA and SPU have coordinated the design of the NDS to ensure that the goals of both agencies are met. SHA has formed the High Point Natural Drainage, Landscape, Open Space and Rights of Way Maintenance Association, a Washington nonprofit corporation, ("Association"), one of the functions of which is to maintain the surface landscape portions of the NDS, following its construction by SHA.

 E. SHA and SPU desire to enter into this MOA to set forth their respective responsibilities for the funding, construction and maintenance of the NDS at the High Point Redevelopment.

 Accordingly, the parties agree as follows:

 Agreement

 1. Design of NDS. The NDS for the 120-acre High Point Redevelopment has been designed by SHA in cooperation with SPU. SPU has reviewed and approved the Phase I portion of the Street Improvement Plans identified as "SDOT # T03 1748; 3000 SW Graham Street, High Point Revitalization" and located at Vault Plan No.777- 588. SPU also has reviewed the 30% Phase II SIP, and the approval process for Phase II will follow the standard City review process. The Street Improvement Plans for both phases are referred to collectively as the SIP. This MOA applies to both phases of the High Point Redevelopment.

 2. Construction of the NDS. SHA will be responsible for construction of the NDS in accordance with the approved SIP (as may be amended with the prior written approval of SHA and SPU) through SHA's general contractor for each phase. SHA shall be responsible for all payments to the general contractor. SHA shall cause its general contractor for each phase to obtain and maintain insurance in accordance with the requirements set forth in Exhibit A.

 3. Responsibility for the Cost of Construction of the NDS.

 A. SPU Responsibility. SPU agrees to reimburse SHA for construction of the NDS elements as set forth below, up to the total sum of $2,700,000 for Phases I and II of the NDS. Under no circumstances shall SPU have any funding obligation hereunder in excess of $2,700,000.

 Phase I Reimbursement Categories:

 * Up to $200,000 for porous concrete streets

 * Up to $170,000 for porous concrete sidewalks

 * Up to $1,000,000 for natural drainage system

 * Up to $240,000 for special site preparation for NDS, soil enhancements and construction sequencing

 Phase I Total: $1,610,000

 Phase II Reimbursement Categories:

 * Up to $100,000 for porous concrete streets

 * Up to $180,000 for porous concrete sidewalks

 * Up to $650,000 for natural drainage system

 * Up to $160,000 for special site preparation for NDS, soil enhancements and construction sequencing

 Phase II Total: $1,090,000

 B. Adjustments to Scheduled Reimbursements. SHA and SPU agree that it is desirable that, in the event cost savings occur in one of the Reimbursement Categories, that SHA be allowed to reallocate the costs saved to one of the other Reimbursement Categories. Therefore, so long as the Phase I total does not exceed the sum of $1,610,000 and the Phase II total does not exceed the sum of $1,090,000, (and subject to SPU's authority described below to authorize use of unspent Phase I funds for Phase II), SHA may reallocate at its discretion (after consultation with the SPU project manager) the sum to be reimbursed under each of the Reimbursement Categories. For example, SHA may reallocate the sum to be reimbursed for Phase I porous concrete streets from $200,000 to $150,000, and the sum to be reimbursed for Phase I porous concrete sidewalks from $170,000 to $220,000. In addition, SPU may authorize reimbursements up to 10% greater than the amount set forth above for each reimbursement category, provided that the total reimbursement for each phase does not exceed 110% of the respective phase total. After the final Phase I reimbursement, SPU and SHA will meet and evaluate estimated costs to complete Phase II construction of the NDS elements. To the extent that total reimbursement for Phase I is less than $1,610,000, the SPU project manager may authorize use of such unspent funds for Phase II, and the Reimbursement Categories shall be reallocated accordingly. To the extent that the total reimbursement for Phase I is greater than $1,610,000, SPU may reallocate remaining funding among the NDS elements for Phase II. All such reallocations shall be documented by a letter from the Director of SPU to the SHA High Point Project Manager. The Director of SPU, in his sole discretion, may provide funding for the NDS in amounts greater than $2,700,000, but shall be under no obligation whatsoever to do so.

 C. SHA Responsibility. All costs of construction of the NDS not specified as the responsibility of SPU in section 3.A shall be the responsibility of SHA.

 D. SPU shall make the reimbursements set forth in section 3.A according to the schedule set forth in Exhibit B. Such reimbursements shall be made within 30 days of receipt of an invoice from SHA and verification from the SPU drainage inspector for the NDS that the applicable work has been completed to SPU's satisfaction.

 4. Inspection. SHA and SPU will each, at its own respective cost, inspect the course of construction of the NDS to ensure that construction meets approved NDS specifications. SPU has assigned a specific inspector for the NDS work. Through a joint effort, SHA and SPU have developed a series of inspection checklists that are incorporated into the SIP and utilized by SPU inspectors to verify installed work. Communication of inspection issues during construction will be through the SPU drainage inspector to SHA's on-site representative.

 5. Maintenance of NDS. The Association shall be responsible for maintenance and repair of those elements of the NDS as set forth in Exhibit C. SPU shall be responsible for maintenance and repair of those elements of the NDS as set forth in Exhibit D.

 6. Funding Maintenance of Pond. SPU shall reimburse the Association annually for a portion of SHA's costs of maintaining the stormwater pond element of the NDS. As documented in Exhibit E, the initial reimbursement shall be $9,450. Each subsequent reimbursement shall increase by 3% of the previous reimbursement. The annual reimbursement shall be made within 30 days of receipt of an invoice from SHA documented to SPU's reasonable satisfaction.

 7. Transfer of NDS Elements. All improvements and facilities constructed pursuant to the SIP shall become, upon completion and acceptance by the City, the property of the City of Seattle. As of the date of transfer of such improvements and facilities, they shall be free and clear of all liens arising through the actions of SHA, its general contractor or its general contractor's subcontractors or their employees.

 8. System Failure. In the event the NDS located in the right-of-way is constructed according to the approved plans and specifications but fails to adequately perform its drainage system functions in accordance with Exhibit D, SPU will be responsible for all costs of repairing and/or modifying the elements of the NDS in the right-of-way so that it performs in accordance with Exhibit D.

 9. Dispute Resolution. The Director of SPU and the Executive Director of SHA shall each appoint a staff representative responsible to resolve disputes between SPU and SHA in the implementation of this MOA. If any such disputes are not resolved within ten days of the date they are brought to the attention of the staff representatives, either staff representative may elevate the dispute directly to the Director of SPU and the Executive Director of SHA for resolution. The Director of SPU and the Executive Director of SHA may appoint a mediator to assist in resolution. The costs of mediation shall be shared equally. In the event the parties are unable to resolve their disputes according to the process identified in this paragraph, the parties may assert their legal and equitable remedies in other forums.

 10. Successors and Assigns. The terms and conditions of this MOA shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of SHA and SPU. Neither party may assign its rights under this MOA without the other party's prior written approval.

 11. Indemnification. SHA and SPU shall take reasonable care not to damage each other's property, including any improvements located thereon, during the exercise of the rights and obligations described herein. To the extent permitted by applicable law, SHA and SPU each agrees to indemnify, defend and save each other harmless from and against any and all demand, liability, damage, cost, expense (including reasonable attorneys' fees), cause of action, suit, claim (including mechanic's, materialmen's or construction liens) and judgment, arising out of, caused by or resulting from the construction or use of the NDS by SHA and SPU or their officers, employees, agents, contractors, tenants, concessionaires, invitees, licensees or guests. However, neither SHA nor SPU shall be entitled to the indemnification provided herein for any injury or damage to the extent arising out of the indemnified party's negligent act, negligent omission or willful misconduct, or that of any of its officers, employees, agents, contractors, tenants, concessionaires, invitees, licensees or guests. SHA and SPU expressly and specifically waive their immunity as an employer under RCW title 51, industrial insurance, which waiver is solely for the purpose of giving full force and effect to the foregoing indemnity and is not intended to benefit any third parties.

 12. Authority. SPU and SHA represent and warrant, each to the other, that they have the necessary authority and power to enter into this MOA.

 13. Applicable Law. This MOA shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington.

 14. Entire Agreement. This MOA including exhibits contains the entire agreement between the parties and shall not be modified or amended in any way except in writing signed by the parties.

 Dated this ___ day of___________, 2004.

 CITY OF SEATTLE BY: ___________________ ITS: ___________________, Seattle Public Utilities

 SEATTLE HOUSING AUTHORITY BY: ___________________ ITS: ___________________

 HIGH POINT NATURAL DRAINAGE, LANDSCAPE, OPEN SPACE AND RIGHTS OF WAY MAINTENANCE ASSOCIATION BY: ______________________ ITS: ______________________

 Exhibits: A. Insurance Requirements B. Construction Reimbursement Schedule C. Operation and Maintenance Responsibilities of SHA D. Operation and Maintenance Responsibilities of SPU E. Calculation of Pond Maintenance Reimbursement

 References:

 1. Seattle Public Utilities and Seattle Department of Transportation Memorandum of Agreement Regarding Right-of-Way Improvements at Seattle Housing Authority's High Point Development, February 2003

 2. Street Improvement Plans (SDOT T03-1748) for the High Point Revitalization

 Exhibit A INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS

 1. GENERAL

 While constructing the NDS, the general contractor shall, at no expense to the City, continuously maintain insurance as set forth below.

 2. REQUIRED COVERAGES AND LIMITS OF LIABILITY

 A. Commercial General Liability (CGL) Insurance:

 COVERAGES LIMITS OF LIABILITY Premises/Operations $5,000,000 each occurrence, CSL BI PD Products/Completed Operations $5,000,000 each occurrence, CSL BI PD Contractual $5,000,000 each occurrence, CSL BI PD Independent Contractors $5,000,000 each occurrence, CSL BI PD Personal/Advertising Injury $1,000,000 each offense Stop Gap/Employer's Liability $1,000,000 each accident/disease/employee Fire Legal $ 100,000 each occurrence

 Limits of liability requirement may be met with primary limits or with excess/umbrella limits. There shall be no exclusion for subsidence or equivalent perils.

 B. Automobile Liability Insurance: Coverage shall apply to owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles. Minimum limit of liability shall be $5,000,000 each occurrence, CSL BI and PD.

 C. Worker's Compensation Insurance: Contractor shall secure its liability for industrial injury to its employees, or the employees of any subcontractors who supply services under this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington. Contractor waives, with respect to the City only, its immunity under RCW Title 51, Industrial Insurance, of the Revised Code of Washington. If Contractor is qualified as a self-insurer in accordance with Chapter 51.14 of the Revised Code of Washington, Contractor shall so certify to the City by submitting a letter signed by a corporate officer, indicating that it is a qualified self-Insurer and setting forth the limits of any policy of excess insurance covering its employees.

 3. CONDITIONS

 A. Security of Insurers. Insurer(s) shall either be rated A- VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or filed as surplus lines by a Washington surplus lines broker unless otherwise approved by the Risk Management Division.

 B. City Of Seattle as Additional Insured. Except for Worker's Compensation (paragraph 2.C., above), all insurance policies shall be endorsed to include the City of Seattle as an additional insured for primary limits of liability subject to a severability of interest/separation of insureds clause.

 C. Deductibles. Contractor is responsible for payment of any claim within any deductible or self-insured retention. If Contractor's insurance contains deductibles or self-insured retentions in excess of $25,000, Contractor shall disclose such amount and the City reserves the right evaluate Contractor's risk bearing capacity. Contractor shall provide necessary financial reports and information to facilitate this.

 D. Notice of Cancellation. In the event of cancellation, Contractor's Insurer shall provide the City with written notice, accompanied by the actual reason therefore, that must be actually delivered or mailed 45 days prior to the effective date of the cancellation (except 30 days as respects insurance procured under the provisions of chapter 48.15 RCW and 10 days prior to the effective date of the cancellation as respects nonpayment of premiums).

 4. REQUIRED EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE

 A. Certificate of insurance, a binder or a copy of declarations pages; and

 B. An attached copy of the additional insured endorsement or blanket additional insured policy wording to the CGL policy.

 Send certification to each of the below: City of Seattle City of Seattle Risk Management Division Seattle Municipal Tower, Suite 4350 700 Fifth Avenue P.O. Box 94669 Seattle, WA 98124-4669 Fax: (206) 615-0065 Email: RiskManagement@seattle.gov

 Exhibit B Construction Reimbursement Schedule

 1. Enhanced Site Work

 a. Up to $240,000 to be invoiced following SHA's receipt of first Phase I invoice from contractor regarding the site work described in section 3.A.

 b. Up to $160,000 to be invoiced following SHA's receipt of first Phase II invoice from contractor regarding the site work described in section 3.A.

 2. Natural Drainage System

 * Up to $45,455 per street length for Phase I, and $29,545 per street length for Phase II based on percent completed as follows:

 * 60% once excavation, trenching and piping are complete

 * 30% once engineered soils are placed

 * 10% once surface restoration (landscape and curb cuts) is complete

 3. Porous pavement sidewalks

 Up to $7,727 per street length for 22 streets in Phase I, and $8,182 per street length for 22 street lengths in Phase II based on percent completed as follows:

 * 90% once pavement installed

 * 10% when protection is removed

 4. Porous pavement streets

 * Up to $200,000 for Street A (32nd Avenue SW between SW Raymond and SW Juneau) in Phase I based on percent completed as follows:

 a. $60,000 at completion of roadway demolition, grading and subgrade preparation

 b. $80,000 at completion of paving

 c. $40,000 at completion of restoration

 d. $20,000 at removal of protection

 * Up to $100,000 for Street B (to be determined) for Phase II based on percent completed as follows:

 a. $30,000 at completion of roadway demolition, grading and subgrade preparation

 b. $40,000 at completion of paving

 c. $20,000 at completion of restoration

 d. $10,000 at removal of protection

 Exhibit C The Association's Operations and Maintenance Responsibilities for NDS

 1. Maintenance

 The Association agrees to maintain surface features of the planting strip within the right-of-way on the property side of the curb consistent with typical property owner responsibilities in the City of Seattle.

 Drainage grates: The Association shall keep the grates and surface inlets free from debris and leaf build up.

 Swale Maintenance: The Association will be responsible for surface maintenance of the swale including removal of debris and routine inspection, and shall notify SPU of any visible concerns.

 Landscape Maintenance: The Association will be responsible for landscape maintenance tasks within the right-of-way, including mowing, weeding, leaf removal, mulching and thinning of plant materials as needed to maintain a healthy plant community. The Association shall be responsible for routine street tree maintenance including pruning to maintain shape. The Association shall mulch the vegetated swales at least once a year. Lawn areas shall be aerated yearly after 3 growing seasons. Fertilizers and pesticides shall not be used in the swales and pond area without permission from SPU.

 Pond Maintenance: The Association will be responsible for maintenance tasks associated with the stormwater pond that are outlined in the Washington State DOE Dam Safety Report, the Street Improvement Plans, Drainage Basin Plan and Report and the Seattle Municipal Code.

 2. Repair/Replacement

 The Association will be responsible for upgrades or replacement of landscape materials to maintain a healthy plant community.

 3. Evaluation

 The Association understands that on-going monitoring of the NDS will occur within right of ways or public easements.

 Porous Pavements Maintenance

 The Association will inform the residents in the High Point Community of special considerations regarding the porous pavements. The Association will routinely review sidewalk condition and notify SPU of any issues that may affect function.

 Exhibit D SPU's Operation and Maintenance Responsibilities

 A. Natural Drainage System

 1. Maintenance

 SPU shall fulfill its normal responsibilities within the right-of-way, including inspection and maintenance of catch basins, inlets and public storm and sanitary mains, including pipe jetting, TV-ing and root removal.

 SPU agrees to maintain all sub-surface drainage elements within the right-of-way including inspection and maintenance of public storm and slotted drain pipes. In addition, SPU routine maintenance will include removing minor sediment deposition around inlets and from catch basins to ensure proper drainage. SPU will maintain soil medium as necessary to ensure proper hydrologic function and removal of sediment deposition.

 2. Repair and Replacement

 If standing water occurs for more than 72 hours after the end of the last rain event, up to the 25-year storm event, within a drainage swale located in the right-of-way, SPU agrees to inspect and repair the drainage system. If during inspection, SPU field operations staff determines that routine inspection and maintenance will not address the standing water, or if standing water persists after maintenance and minor repair activities, then field operations staff will refer the site to the Natural Systems Capital Projects Manager or equivalent in the Resource Planning Division for design, repair and, if necessary, replacement. Replacement shall not be performed unless recommended by the Natural Drainage System Team after a complete evaluation.

 B. Other Right-of-Way Elements

 Additional responsibilities regarding the right-of-way are outlined in the "Seattle Public Utilities and Seattle Department of Transportation MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT Regarding Right-of-way Improvements at Seattle Housing Authority's High Point Development, February 2003."

 Exhibit E

 Summary Stormwater Pond Maintenance Budget Allocation

 Yearly routine $5,690 tasks

 Average per year $4,525 for 3-5 year tasks

 Average per year $9,500 for long term Major Maintenance tasks

 Subtotal Yearly $19,715 Assessment

 tax allowance $1,735

 property tax $1,000 allowance

 Admin/processing $600 allowance

 Total $23,050

 Annual Cost to 41% $9,450 City for SPU share of pond*

 Annual Cost to 59% $13,599 SHA for share of pond

 Cost Escalation 3% per year Base

 * Based on percentage of drainage from City-owned property

```
