

********

**Council Bill Number: 115196**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121756**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Monorail; authorizing the Seattle Center Director to execute a Fifth Amendment to the Monorail System Concession Agreement between the City of Seattle and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture to address repairs and modifications to the Monorail trains due to the May 31, 2004 Monorail fire and increase Monorail fare limits.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 21, 2005
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Della, Drago)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 24, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 24, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 7, 2005
   
**Committee:** Parks, Neighborhoods & Education
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** MONORAIL-SYSTEM, SEATTLE-CENTER, FEES, LEASES, REPAIR

**Fiscal Note:**115196

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Monorail; authorizing the Seattle Center Director to execute a Fifth Amendment to the Monorail System Concession Agreement between the City of Seattle and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture to address repairs and modifications to the Monorail trains due to the May 31, 2004 Monorail fire and increase Monorail fare limits.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a document substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto as Attachment 1 and identified as the "Fifth Amendment to Monorail System Concession Agreement Between the City of Seattle and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture," pursuant to which responsibility for funding repairs and modifications to the Monorail trains due to the May 31, 2004 Monorail fire is allocated and Monorail fare limits are increased.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Fifth Amendment to Monorail System Concession Agreement Between the City of Seattle and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture

 Kerry Smith/KS

 CEN Monorail Fifth Concession Amend ORD

 February 1, 2005

 Version # 2

 1

 Attachment 1 to Ordinance _________

 FIFTH AMENDMENT

 TO

 MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT

 BETWEEN

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 AND

 SEATTLE MONORAIL SERVICES JOINT VENTURE

 This Fifth Amendment ("Fifth Amendment") to the Monorail System Concession Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into by and between The City of Seattle (herinafter referred to as "City"), a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and through its Seattle Center Department and the Director thereof (hereinafter referred to as "Department" and "Director," respectively), and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture, a Washington general partnership organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington (hereinafter referred to as "SMS or Concessionaire") which consists of Railsafe, Inc. and WMS, Inc., each of which are corporations organized under and authorized to do business in the State of Washington.

 On or about May 2, 1994, pursuant to Ordinance 117123, the City entered into a Monorail System Concession Agreement ("Agreement") with the Concessionaire regarding the administration, operation and maintenance of the Monorail System. Said Agreement was amended on May 10, 1996, pursuant to Ordinance 118152, on September 30, 1996, pursuant to Ordinance 118304, on November 23, 1998, pursuant to Ordinance 119263 and again on March 18, 2002 pursuant to Ordinance 120750. The parties to the Agreement now desire to make further modifications to the Agreement.

 Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Amendment, all references herein are to the Article numbers in the Agreement, as amended. All provisions of the Agreement that have not been modified by this Fifth Amendment shall remain in full force and effect.

 Now therefore, in consideration of the mutual covenants, promises and performances hereinafter described, the parties amend the Agreement as follows:

 1. AMENDMENT OF MONORAIL SYSTEM AGREEMENT

 TO ADD A NEW SECTION XXX. PROJECT

 A new Section XXX. is added as follows:

 XXX. PROJECT

 A. PURPOSE

 The purpose of this Fifth Amendment is to address the funding and repairs to the Seattle Center Monorail trains as a result of the May 31, 2004 fire on the blue train.

 B. DEFINITIONS

 As used in this Section XXX. the following terms and words mean:

 1. Project. Repairing the Seattle Center Monorail trains and returning them to service.

 a) Project Time Period. June 01, 2004, through the date that both trains are fully tested and available for passenger service; provided, however, that if the parties agree that only one train will be returned to service, the Project Time Period shall end on the date that such train is fully tested and available for passenger service.

 b) Project Repairs. Project Repairs include all work required to repair the trains and to safely place them back in service in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, and will include, but not be limited to, repair design, construction, inspection, and testing of the trains. This work will be done by consulting engineers, contractors, the Seattle Center Capital Projects Coordinator, and SMS employees.

 c) Project Costs. All expenses (the Concessionaire's Maintenance Expenses, Operating Expenses, Management Fee of Seven Percent of Total Revenues, and any Minimum Guaranteed Concession Fee paid to the Seattle Center) incurred during the Project Time Period for the repair and operation of the monorail. In addition the following expenses will be included as Project Costs:

 (1) Project Overhead Fee. An overhead fee of seven percent of Project Repair Costs incurred during that month, exclusive of the Project Overhead Fee and Funding Fee costs, shall accrue each month during the Project Time Period, up to a maximum of $150,000. The Project Overhead Fee shall not be considered operating revenue and will not be included in calculations of Total Revenues, under the Agreement, even if earned or paid after the trains have been returned to operation. The Project Overhead Fee will be charged against Project Repair Costs.

 (2) Funding Fee(s). Based on the daily balances of the two Project Funding Debt accounts, a monthly accrual of the actual borrowing costs (interest) for Project Funding Debt will be made, and charged against the related Project Repair Costs or Project Net Operating Losses to date. The accrual will be credited to the appropriate Project Funding Debt accounts. Concurrent with the month end accrual, the Funding Fees will be paid to SMS. Funding Fees paid to SMS will not be included in revenue for the purposes of calculating Concession or Management Fees.

 d) Project Funding Debt. SMS will be solely responsible for providing the cash for Project Costs during the Project Time Period. Each time cash is provided it will be recorded as a credit in either:

 (1) Project Repair Costs Funding Debt Account, or

 (2) Project Net Operating Loss Funding Debt Account.

 e) Project Repair Costs. That portion of Project Costs that are directly related to accomplishing Project Repairs, which shall include:

 (1) SMS Employees shall make Project Repairs when their skills are appropriate to the task. Those performing repairs may include drivers, cashiers, janitorial staff, supervisors and maintenance staff.

 (2) SMS employees shall keep time cards and records identifying the tasks performed and their time spent performing Project Repairs.

 (3) SMS employees' time shall be charged to Project Repair Costs at their regular hourly rate plus a fifteen percent overhead charge. The hourly rate and the overhead charge shall be the only SMS labor costs included in Project Repair Costs. The accounting offset to this overhead charge will be a credit to Project Net Operating Losses and will not be considered revenue for purposes of calculating Net Revenue, the Management Fee or Concession Fee. The regular hourly rate for SMS employees is shown in Exhibit A.

 (4) Project Repair Costs will not be considered Maintenance Expenses or Operating Expenses under the Agreement.

 f) Project Net Operating Loss. That portion of Project costs that are not Project Repair Costs. Project Net Operating Loss includes the Management Fee, if any, and the Concession Fee.

 2. Net Revenues from the operation of the Monorail. Upon the expiration of the Project Time Period, and until the Project Repair Cost Debt and the Project Net Operating Loss Debt are fully paid off, Net Revenues shall be the difference between Total Revenue, collected during each monthly accounting period and the sum of [a] the Concessionaire's Maintenance Expenses and Operating Expenses incurred in such period, and [b] a Management Fee of seven percent of Total Revenues collected during such period. When the Project Debt is fully repaid, Net Revenue shall be as described in the Agreement.

 a) If the Monorail trains are returned to service sequentially, Net Revenues shall be calculated based on the Total Revenues, the Concessionaire's Maintenance Expense and Operating Expenses and the Management Fee from the operation of the operating train and shall be accounted for separately from Project Costs. Net Revenues shall be applied 75% to the Project Repair Costs and 25% the Project Net Operating Loss components of the Project Debt Accounts.

 b) If the Monorail trains are returned to passenger service sequentially, during the Project Time Period that only one train is operating, train operating expenses which are not directly related to operation of the monorail train will be allocated 66% to the operating train expenses and 34% to the Project Net Operating Loss.

 3. Project Repair Cost Guarantee. Provided that the trains, or train in the event it is determined that only one train will operate, have returned to passenger service the City will guarantee repayment of Project Repair Cost Funding Debt up to a total of $2.5 million if and when the Seattle Monorail Project (SMP) terminates the Concession Agreement for construction of the new monorail.

 The allocation of Net Revenue payments (as defined in Section F) for the Project Repair Costs shall be applied first to the funding debt in excess of the $2.5 million Project Repair Cost Guarantee (up to the Approved Project Repair Cost Budget of $2.6 million), so that the Project Repair Costs Funding Debt that is not subject to the Project Repair Cost Guarantee is repaid first.

 4. Project Repair Cost Cap. $2.6 million is the Project Repair Cost Cap. The Approved Project Budget for project repair costs is also $2.6 million. The Project Repair Cost Guarantee, in the case of an early termination of the Concession Agreement by the SMP, is $2.5 million (see Section B.3. above).

 The total amount of Project Repair Cost expenditures that can be incurred is $2.6 million, with the exceptions described below.

 (1) To the extent that property insurance recoveries either:

 a. exceed $756,000; and/or

 b. if there are Project Repair Costs that exceed the Approved Project Budget line item amount, and this excess will be recovered from property insurance proceeds not previously accounted for in the initial $756,000 property insurance recovery,

 The Project Repair Cost Budget and Project Repair Costs expenditures may exceed $2.6 million by the amount of insurance recoveries and such insurance recoveries will be used to fully repay these funding debt costs and not be allocated between the two Project Funding Debt Accounts.

 (2) In the event a totally unexpected cost item is found that had not been included in the Approved Project Repair Costs Budget or identified as necessary on any investigation or inspection, which is outside the scope of work identified in the Approved Project Repair Costs Budget, prior to expending funds for such item(s), discussions between the parties may be reopened to decide whether or not to change the $2.6 million budget to undertake the unanticipated expense. The parties would first determine whether there is sufficient contingency to absorb the change into the $2.6 million budget; then review whether there are lower priority repairs for which the change would be substituted within the $2.6 million budget; and only if there are no other feasible alternatives could the change be approved as an increase in the $2.6 million Project Repair Cost Cap and Budget, or such other Project Repair Cost Cap as modified by insurance recoveries as noted in Section B.4.(1). above.

 Project Repair Costs budget and expenditure increases above the Project Repair Costs Cap, as modified by Section B.4. (1) and B.4.(2), if any, will be transferred to the Net Operating Loss Funding Debt Account, for which SMS is solely at risk in the case of an early termination of the Agreement. The operating losses debt account shall only be repaid from future operating income and business interruption insurance recoveries.

 In no event shall the Project Repair Costs budget and expenditures, exclusive of budget increases and expenditures funded by insurance recoveries as noted in Section B.4. (1). above, exceed $2.9 million.

 C. NO TERMINATION UNDER SECTION XX II.

 Neither SMS nor Seattle Center will exercise the option to terminate the Agreement under Section XXII. Damage and Destruction due to the May 31, 2004 fire on the blue train.

 D. PROJECT SCOPE, SCHEDULE AND BUDGET.

 1. The Approved Project Plan, including the Project Scope, Project Schedule and Project Budget is included as Exhibit B hereto. The Project Budget includes both a Project Repair Costs budget of $2.6 million and a Project Net Operating Loss budget of $941,000 for the Project Time Period. The Approved Project plan may only be modified with the approval of the Seattle Center, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Project Repair Costs budget and expenditures for it shall not exceed $2.6 million except for the following reasons.

 a). If SMS proposes a budget change related to the blue train fire damage repair, or any other specifically identified line item in the Approved Budget, and the expenditures for such fire damage repair or other line item exceed the initial budget amount, and if the additional expenditure amount is fully or partially recovered by insurance proceeds, then the additional amount shall increase the $2.6 million dollar Approved Project Repair Costs Budget for the specified repair items by the increased insurance recovery amount.

 b). To the extent that there are property insurance proceeds recovered in excess of $756,000.00, which have not already been accounted for in Section D.1.a)., the excess recovery may be used to increase the Approved Project Budget to provide budget authority to fund other approved project repair costs that have cost more than their initial approved budget estimates.

 c). In the event a totally unexpected cost item is found that had not been included in the Project Repair Costs budget or identified as necessary on any investigation or inspection, which is outside the scope of work identified in the approved Project Repair Costs budget, prior to expending funds for such item(s), discussions between the parties may be reopened to decide whether or not to change the $2.6 million budget to undertake the unanticipated expense. The parties would first determine whether there is sufficient contingency to absorb the change into the $2.6 million budget; then review whether there are lower priority repairs for which the change would be substituted within the $2.6 million budget; and only if there are no other feasible alternatives could the change be approved as an increase in the $2.6 million Project Repair Cost Cap and Budget.

 Should the Approved Project Repair Costs exceed $2.6 million, such excess amounts shall be repaid in accordance with Section B. above.

 2. At any point in the Project Time Period, if it appears to either party, based on reasonable and clear evidence, that it will be impossible or infeasible to complete the Project, that party shall give immediate notice to the other party. If the parties agree, the Project, or portion thereof, will be terminated. If the parties do not agree, they will immediately select an independent third party, who has expertise in the dispute area, and the third party shall make a determination as to whether it is possible or feasible to complete the Project, which determination will be binding on the parties. The cost of retaining the independent third party will be borne equally by the parties.

 3. If the red train is returned to passenger service, but the blue train is not returned to passenger service because that portion of the Project has been terminated, associated Project expenditures will cease and Seattle Center shall not be responsible for payment of any further associated Project Repair Costs.

 E. SMS PROJECT FUNDING DEBT

 SMS will be solely responsible for providing the cash for Project Costs during the Project Time Period. Each time cash is provided it will be recorded in either:

 1. Project Repair Costs Funding Debt Account, or

 2. Project Net Operating Loss Funding Debt Account.

 When SMS provides cash to pay either Project Repair Costs or Project Net Operating Loss, it will be accounted for by crediting the appropriate Project Funding Debt Account for the amount of the cash contribution.

 F. REPAYMENT OF PROJECT FUNDING DEBT.

 1. Project Funding Debt. SMS and Seattle Center each have an equal (50%:50%) interest in the Net Revenues from the Monorail System under the Agreement. Upon expiration of the Project Time Period, SMS and Seattle Center shall each be responsible to pay 50% ("Share," "Its Share" or "Their Shares") of the Project Repair Costs Funding Debt and the Project Net Operating Losses Funding Debt, so long as the Agreement has not been terminated by SMP for construction of the new monorail.

 2. Repayment. Upon expiration of the Project Time Period, and until the Project Funding Debt Account balances are fully paid off, unless the City has opted to pre-pay all or a portion of the Project Funding Debt Accounts as outlined in Section K., the Net Revenues from the operation of the Monorail shall be applied toward repayment of the Project Funding Debt Accounts. The accounting entries will be: debit the Project Repair Costs Funding Debt for 75% of Net Revenues and debit the Project Net Operating Losses Funding Debt Accounts for 25% of Net Revenues unless and until either Project Debt Account is fully repaid at which time Net Revenues shall be applied 100% to the remaining Project Debt Account.

 a). Sequential Return to Service. If the Monorail trains are returned to service sequentially, Net Revenues from the first train will be applied to the Project Funding Debt accounts during the Project Time Period until the second train is available for service.

 3. Midyear Proration of Concession Fee. Upon the date that the Project Debt is fully repaid, the provisions of the Agreement with respect to the distribution of Net Revenues and determination of the Concession Fee, including the Minimum Guaranteed Concession Fee, shall be in effect. If the Project Debt is fully repaid mid-year, the Minimum Guaranteed Concession Fee shall be prorated based on the number of months or partial months remaining in the calendar year. All provisions of the Agreement not specifically modified by this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect during the course of the Project.

 4. Federal Transit Authority (FTA) Funding. In the event FTA funding becomes available for repair of the monorail trains, such funds shall be applied toward the Project Repair Costs as directed by the Seattle Center.

 G. TREATMENT OF INSURANCE PROCEEDS

 1. Except as modified by Section K. 4, insurance proceeds (including recoveries from any future insured incidents), from both business interruption and property damage insurance shall be applied to reduce the appropriate Project Funding Debt Account as defined by the recovery criteria utilized by the insurance carrier and agreed by the parties. Insurance proceeds shall not be included in calculating the Total Revenues, Net Revenues, Management Fee or the Concession Fee.

 2. Insurance proceeds received after expiration of the Project Time Period or termination of the Project as outlined in Section D, shall first be applied to reducing the appropriate Project Funding Debt Accounts until the Project Funding Debt Accounts are fully repaid. After the Project Funding Debt Accounts are fully repaid, insurance proceeds from any future insured incidents, other than the May 31, 2004 incident, shall be applied according to the terms of the Agreement.

 3. Except as modified by Section K. 4., insurance proceeds related to the May 31, 2004 incident received after the Project Funding Debt Accounts have been fully repaid, shall be shared equally between the parties and shall not be considered in calculating the Total Revenues, Net Revenue, Management Fee or the Concession Fee.

 H. ACCOUNTING

 1. Project Books and Records. There shall be Project Books and Records that will be kept until all Project Funding Debt is fully repaid. The Project Books and Records shall show among other things, insurance proceeds, Funding Fees, Project Overhead Fees, and all revenues and expenses and shall be prepared and maintained on a monthly basis with copies delivered to Seattle Center monthly.

 a) Leasehold Excise Tax Refund. To the extent that there is a refund of leasehold excise taxes owed or paid prior to August 11, 2003, these amounts, exclusive of interest earnings paid, if any, will not be included in Total Revenues and will be retained by SMS pursuant to prior agreements.

 b) Concession fees. Until the Project Funding Debt Accounts are fully repaid, except as provided in Section K hereof. Seattle Center's Concession Fee will be treated as an Operating Expense and will be:

 (1) For Contract Year 2004 - $90,400 ($100,000 less the previously agreed upon $9,600 concessions fee credit for the Ederer bearings.)

 (2) For Contract Year 2005 on - $50,000, unless the City's share of the Project Funding Debt has been pre-paid as provided in Section K.

 (3) Midyear Proration of Concession Fee. Upon the date that the Project Funding Debt is fully repaid, the provisions of the Agreement with respect to the distribution of Net Revenues and determination of the Concession Fee, including the Minimum Guaranteed Concession Fee, shall be in effect. If the Project Funding Debt is fully repaid mid- year, the Minimum Guaranteed Concession Fee shall be prorated based on the number of months or partial months remaining in the calendar year.

 c) Seattle Center Projects Coordinator. Seattle Center will assign a Capital Projects Coordinator as the Seattle Center's representative to the Project team, who's cost, up to a maximum of $5,000 a month or $25,000 in total, shall be a Project Repair Cost. The Capital Projects Coordinator shall attend weekly project management meetings and be Seattle Center's representative to the project team and be available for various tasks as requested by the Project Manager.

 d) Irrevocable Renewal Account. The Monorail has a deficit in the Irrevocable Renewal Account (IRA) as of June 1, 2004. This deficit will be reversed out of the IRA account and shown as a Maintenance Expense in the period ending June 30, 2004. The parties agree to cease contributions to the IRA until the Project Funding Debt Accounts are fully repaid. Contributions to the IRA may resume once the Project Funding Debt Accounts are fully repaid consistent, with Section XI. E. of the Agreement.

 e) Adjustments to the Monorail April 2004 and May 2004 Net Income. The Monorail had a combined earned undistributed net income in April and May 2004 of $30,148.30. In recognition of Seattle Center's equivalent reduction in concession fees for that period, $30,148.30 of operating expenses will be transferred out of the expenses for the period ending June 30, 2004 and shown as an expense in the period ending May 30, 2004.

 I. SEATTLE CENTER GUARANTEE OF UNPAID PORTION OF PROJECT REPAIR COSTS UP TO A TOTAL PROJECT REPAIR COST OF $2.5 MILLION

 1. If the Project Repair Cost Funding Debt Account is not yet repaid, and there is a termination of the remaining term of the Agreement by the Seattle Monorail Project, as a result of the New Monorail construction requirements, then Seattle Center shall pay to SMS the applicable balance of the Project Repair Cost Funding Debt Account within the Repair Project Cost Guarantee of $2.5 million. Seattle Center does not and will not guarantee any amount beyond a total Project Repair Cost of $2.5 million. Seattle Center shall proceed with due diligence to secure the City approvals necessary to repay SMS. SMS will have no obligation to repay any outstanding balance of the Project Repair Cost Funding Debt below this guaranteed cap. SMS shall bear responsibility for any unpaid Project Repair Cost Funding Debt in excess of the Project Repair Cost Guarantee, and for any unpaid Project Net Operating Loss Funding Debt, as of the date of Seattle Monorail Project's termination of the Agreement.

 So long as it is not in breach of contract, SMS will continue to be the City's Concessionaire to operate and maintain the Monorail until the Agreement is terminated for construction of the new monorail or the Agreement extension options are not exercised, whichever occurs first.

 J. MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL.

 SMS shall control and be responsible for managing and implementing the Project in the most prudent and cost effective manner. SMS will consult with Seattle Center on significant milestones and major decisions affecting the Project.

 1. Sequential Return to Service. If the Monorail trains are returned to passenger service sequentially, Seattle Center and SMS shall mutually agree upon revised minimum City requirements for operation until the second train is available for service.

 K. SEATTLE CENTER PREPAYMENT OPTION

 Seattle Center shall have the option, in its sole discretion, to pre- pay all or a portion of the Project Debt.

 1. Seattle Center's Share of the Project Funding Debt . Until the Project Funding Debt is repaid or until the Agreement is terminated by the Seattle Monorail Project, whichever is first, Seattle Center's annual Share of the Project Funding Debt is limited to 50 percent of Net Revenues, unless Seattle Center has pre-paid a portion or all of It's Share of the Project Funding Debt.

 2. Minimum Concession Fee Guarantee. If Seattle Center elects to pre- pay Its Share of the Project Funding Debt, then from that time forward, SMS will resume paying Seattle Center a Concession Fee based on Seattle Center's 50 percent share of Net Revenues, which shall be no less than $50,000 per year, or a prorated amount for portions of a year, while SMS's share of Net Revenues shall continue to be dedicated to paying Its Share of the Project Funding Debt. The Agreement's Minimum Guarantee to Seattle Center will not apply until the total Project Funding Debt has been fully repaid.

 3. Seattle Center Option to Pre-pay SMS Share of the Project Funding Debt. If Seattle Center elects to pre-pay SMS' Share of the Project Funding Debt (assuming it has also paid Its Share of the Project Funding Debt), then from that time forward, SMS shall pay Seattle Center SMS's 50 percent share of Net Revenues, until Seattle Center has been repaid SMS's Share of the Project Funding Debt plus accrued interest. The interest rate charged to SMS shall be based on the actual interest rate that Seattle Center pays for the funds plus issuance and other related costs and fees of acquiring and administering the funds.

 4. Insurance Refund. Should insurance proceeds from the May 31, 2004 incident be received after Seattle Center has paid all or a portion of Its Share of the Project Funding Debt, SMS shall remit 50 percent of such insurance proceeds to Seattle Center up to the amount Seattle Center has paid of Its Share of the Project Debt. Any remaining insurance proceeds shall be used to repay the Project Debt, whether held by SMS or by the City of Seattle. SMS shall remit 100 percent of such insurance proceeds to Seattle Center, if Seattle Center has paid both Its Share and SMS's Share of the Project Funding Debt. If Seattle Center has been repaid and the Project Funding Debt balance is zero and additional insurance proceeds are remitted, the proceeds shall be allocated equally between the parties.

 L. PROJECT MANAGEMENT

 1. Project Management Coordination.

 a) Coordination Meetings. The individual retained by SMS to manage the Project (SMS Project Manager) shall conduct regular Project construction meetings including the Seattle Center's Capital Projects Coordinator. The SMS Project Manger shall also keep the Seattle Center Capital Projects Coordinator informed of the time and place of each regular and special meeting between the SMS Project Manager and the SMS Project consultant(s) and contractor(s) to enable the Seattle Center Projects Coordinator to attend.

 b) Status Reports. SMS shall deliver a copy of all Project construction progress meeting minutes and the SMS Project Manager's weekly Project Plan updates to the Seattle Center Capital Projects Coordinator within seven (7) days after the receipt thereof by SMS.

 c) Construction Instructions. The Seattle Center Capital Projects Coordinator shall not be authorized to give the SMS Project Manager or construction consultant(s) or contractor(s) binding instructions and/or to make decisions with respect to the Project. Nothing herein shall limit the authority of the City, in its governmental and regulatory capacity, to issue any instructions and directives to SMS's subcontractors.

 2. General Requirements for Project Activity.

 a) General Requirements. SMS and the Seattle Center Capital Projects Coordinator shall together plan and schedule any work outside of SMS's Exclusive Use areas within the Seattle Center grounds. All Project- related work performed by or for SMS outside of their Exclusive Use areas shall be scheduled and carried out in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact such as traffic constraints, noise, dust and fumes on Seattle Center events, tenants and patrons.

 All utility lines, equipment and service, materials, equipment and plant material that is damaged or destroyed as a consequence of any Project-related activity shall be repaired, corrected or replaced by SMS to the condition the damaged or destroyed item was in immediately prior to its being damaged or destroyed, or to a better condition, regardless of the cause of damage, unless other permitted by the Redevelopment Director. SMS shall also bear responsibility for damage to property located outside of the Exclusive Use areas caused by any Project-related act or omission including but not limited to erosion, pollution, run-off, or other related causes during the Project.

 b) Testing and Final Inspection The SMS Project Manager and the Seattle Center Capital Projects Coordinator and other such designee(s) shall participate in a joint walk-through of the Project at completion to verify that all work has been properly completed and review with the Seattle Fire Department and the Washington State Department of Transportation all testing procedures defined and required by the Fire Safety Analysis and the SMS Safety and Security Assurance Plan.

 c) "Record" Drawings & Operations/Maintenance Manuals to be Provided. SMS shall keep a complete set of approved plans and specifications on the construction premises throughout the duration of the Project. Within ninety (90) days after the completion of the Project, SMS shall provide the Seattle Center with a complete set of reproducible "as- built" drawings in a format acceptable to the Director of Redevelopment reflecting the final "as-built" condition of the Project and an original or a copy of each maintenance or operation manual received by SMS for the repair or maintenance of any system or piece of equipment included as part of the Project.

 d) Construction Warranties. The City and SMS acknowledge that certain warranties will be given to SMS by the SMS Project contractor(s) with respect to the Project, by suppliers of materials and equipment for the Project, and by other persons or entities that provide labor or materials for the designed and construction of the Project. SMS shall provide Seattle Center with copies or a log of all warranties. SMS, on notice from Seattle Center, shall make such claims on warranties given to SMS in connection the Project as the Director of Redevelopment requests. Seattle Center shall cooperate with SMS in enforcing SMS's rights under applicable warranties to correct any defects or deficiencies in labor, equipment and materials covered by such warranties.

 e) Insurance. SMS shall require each contractor with which it contracts to make Project Repairs, to furnish and maintain in effect during the full period of the making of such repair insurance as required in Exhibit C, or as modified through mutual agreement by the parties.

 f) Prevailing Wage. Any element of the Project that is a "public work" as defined in RCW 39.04.020 shall be paid at the appropriate prevailing wage schedule or rate established by the State of Washington Department of Labor and Industries. SMS shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all claims for unpaid wages due to any laborer who has worked on the Project, whether such claim is made directly by any laborer or any governmental entity on such laborer's behalf, together with any claims for interest and penalties associated with such unpaid wages.

 g) Environmental Laws. SMS shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend the City from any costs, expenses, liabilities, fines, or penalties (including reasonable outside attorneys fees) resulting from discharges, emissions, spills, removal, storage or disposal of hazardous substances occurring during the term of this Agreement to the extent caused by SMS or its agents or contractors, or any other action by SMS giving rise to City liability, civil or criminal, or responsibility under Federal, state or local environmental laws. This provision shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement, and SMS's obligations hereunder shall apply whenever the City incurs costs or liabilities for Licensee's actions or those of its agents or contractors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, SMS shall not be responsible for any costs or liabilities resulting from any discharge, spill, storage or disposal of a Hazardous Substance if the Hazardous Substance was brought onto the property by any party other than Licensee (including without limitation, the City, an authorized designee or their respective employees or agents), with the exception of any Hazardous Substance contained within the Monorail System as accepted in the Concessions Agreement.

 "Hazardous Substance" means any hazardous, toxic, or dangerous waste, substance or material, including petroleum products, or any contaminant, pollutant or chemical defined or identified in any environmental regulation as posing a potential risk to human health or the environment.

 SMS understands and agrees that flammable or Hazardous Substances, including explosives, petroleum products, paint, solvents, and resins, are not allowed on the Property without the express written permission of the City. If written permission to store the preceding materials is granted by the City, disposal of such materials shall be in a legal manner by SMS.

 Prior to initiating any process requiring the use or storage of, or generating, on or adjacent to the leased premises, Hazardous Substances, SMS covenants and agrees to obtain the City's prior approval. The City may consider approving the specific use, but only after SMS demonstrates to the satisfaction of the City that SMS has all necessary permits for operation and a Hazardous Substances emergency response plan.

 SMS agrees to cooperate in any environmental audits conducted by the City's staff or independent third parties. If SMS fails to take remedial measures for actions for which Licensee would be liable under this Section of the Agreement within 90 days after notice of the same, the City may elect to perform such work, and Licensee covenants and agrees to reimburse the City for its actual costs associated with the City's work.

 SMS further agrees to retain any and all liabilities arising from SMS's off-site disposal, handling, treatment, storage, or transportation of any Hazardous Substances, including petroleum products, generated by SMS and removed from the Property.

 The indemnities, other duties, and obligations provided for in this Section shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

 h. Liens and Encumbrances. SMS shall keep the Monorail System free and clear of any liens and encumbrances arising or growing out of use or occupancy of said Monorail System by SMS; provided, that the City may waive this provision and grant to SMS the permission to contest the validity of any claim or lien SMS believes is invalid. Within ten (10) days after the final determination of the validity of any contested lien or claim, SMS shall satisfy and discharge such lien or claim to the extent the lien or claim is held valid. SMS shall reimburse the City for any costs, expenses, damages or attorney's fees incurred by the City in connection with any contest of a lien or claim on the Monorail System arising out of SMS's use or occupancy thereof.

 M. NO BREACH OF CONTRACT FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.

 In the event SMS is unable, after making good faith efforts, to secure property or liability insurance as required by the Agreement, Seattle Center shall not declare SMS in breach of the Agreement for up to 60 days after SMS' receipt of notice by the insurance provider of termination or nonrenewal of the existing insurance, and will cooperate with SMS to achieve a mutually agreeable solution, including exploring the feasibility of the City covering the monorail under its own insurance programs or having the City acquire the necessary insurance. Such insurance coverage shall be at SMS' expense but to the extent feasible, the City shall minimize the cost of such insurance to SMS. If such liability insurance is placed with or by the City, it will be done in such a manner that SMS and its individual joint venture members will be named as additional insureds. If such property insurance is placed with or by the City, it will be done in such a manner as to designate SMS as a loss payee with a mortgagee clause and a waiver of subrogation.

 In consideration of this, should it not be necessary for SMS and the City to exercise the alternative arrangements described above to procure the required coverage, SMS agrees that the renewal of the property insurance program after May 31, 2005 through its insurance broker will be accomplished in such a manner as to have the City of Seattle designated as an additional named insured (as opposed to a loss payee as required in Section XVII of the Agreement) with a mortgagee clause and a waiver of subrogation.

 N. NO BREACH OF CONTRACT

 To the best of the City's information, knowledge and belief as to matters in which Seattle Center has been fully advised, SMS has performed its responsibilities under the Agreement up until January 12, 2005 and is not in breach of the Agreement.

 O. AMENDMENT MODIFICATIONS.

 Modification or amendment of the Fifth Amendment Project scope, treatment of funds, accounting processes, procedures, and project management may be made by written Memorandum of Understanding between the parties. In no event may the Seattle Center Repair Cost Guarantee be modified or amended by a Memorandum of Understanding.

 2. AMENDMENT OF MONORAIL SYSTEM AGREEMENT TO AMEND SECTION X.F.1f.

 Paragraph one of Section X.F.1f. is amended as follows:

 Allowable Fares. Actual fares shall be established by the Concessionaire, subject to the Approval of the Director, and shall not exceed the following without amendment of this Agreement:

 One way - regular fare (ages 13 - 64): $2.50

 One way - youth fare (ages 5 - 12) $1.25

 One way - senior/disabled fare: $1.25

 Children under 5: Free

 Round trip fares shall be no more than twice one way fares.

 Monthly Pass

 (for unlimited transportation) $55.00

 Monthly Pass for seniors/disabled

 (for unlimited transportation) $25.00

 Event Service Hours per train hour:

 $300.00, upon seven (7) days' advance notice to the Concessionaire

 $350.00, upon less than seven (7) days' advance notice to the Concessionaire

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Fifth Amendment to the Monorail System Concession Agreement between the City of Seattle and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture to be executed by having their authorized representative(s) affix their signatures in the spaces below:

 SEATTLE MONORAIL SERVICES JOINT VENTURE, a Washington general partnership

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By ______________________________

 By ______________________________

 Robert Schorn,

 Virginia Anderson, Director

 Concessionaire's Representative

 Seattle Center Department

 ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______day of ______________________________, 20____, before me personally appeared

 _________________________________, to me known to be the person(s) described in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the same as a free and voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein mentioned.

 GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL the day and year first above written.

 ____________________________________________

 Signature

 ____________________________________________

 (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 Residing at

 My appointment expires:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______ day of _____________________________, 20____, before me personally appeared

 ________________________________ to me known to be the Director of the Seattle Center Department of The City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and, under oath, stated that she was authorized by ordinance to execute said instrument.

 Page 18 of 18 Attachment. 1 to Monorail Fifth Concession Amendment Ordinance

 January 31, 2005

 Exhibit A

 to the

 Fifth Amendment to Monorail System Concession Agreement Between the City of Seattle and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture

SMS EMPLOYEES REGULAR HOURLY RATE CHARGED TO PROJECT REPAIR COSTS

Job Title Hourly Rate Range

 Cashier $8.00 - $12.97

 Driver $11:00 - $13.27

 57 Supervisor $12.42 - $14.22

 Janitor $10.00 - $10.44

 Maintenance $14.00 - $21.84

 Repair Worker $20.00 - $25.00

 Project Manager $37.50

 The regular hourly rate charged to Project Repair Costs shall be the actual hourly rate for that employee and shall be within the hourly rate range above.

 Page 1 of 1 Exhibit A to Att. 1 to Monorail Fifth Concession Amendment Ordinance

 January 31, 2005

 Exhibit C

 to the

 Fifth Amendment to Monorail System Concession Agreement Between the City of Seattle and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture

 CONTRACTOR INSURANCE ADDENDUM TO MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT

 SMS Monorail Repair Insurance Requirements

 1. GENERAL

 Prior to any repair or modification of the Trains or Guideway as described under Section XXX of the MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT, or associated property or equipment, Concessionaire shall require its contractors to have in place the following insurance coverages and limits as described herein.

 2. REQUIRED COVERAGES

 The insurance shall contain the following types and scope of coverages and minimum limits of liability:

 A. Commercial General Liability Insurance including:

 (1) Premises Operations

 (2) Products and Completed Operations

 (3) Personal and Advertising Injury

 (4) Contractual

 (5) Independent Contractors, insuring the liability of subcontractors of any tier

 (6) Stop Gap/Employers Liability

 (7) Fire Damage/Tenant Liability

 Such insurance shall provide a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit bodily injury and property damage except:

 $1,000,000 each offense Personal/Advertising Injury

 $1,000,000 each employee/accident/disease Stop Gap/Employers Liability

 $ 100,000 Fire Damage/Tenant Liability

 B. Commercial Automobile Liability including coverage for owned, non- owned, leased or hired vehicles. If pollutants as defined in exclusion 11 of the ISO commercial auto policy are to be transported, endorsement CA 99 48 and MCS 90 are required. Such insurance shall provide a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit bodily injury and property damage.

 SMS and the City of Seattle shall be an additional insured for primary and noncontributory limits of liability subject to a standard separation of insureds clause. Notwithstanding the specified minimum limits of liability herein or any limitation of liability clause, SMS and the City of Seattle shall be an additional insured for all valid and collectible insurance coverages and limits available to the contractor, whether primary, excess or contingent.

 C. Worker's Compensation covering liability for industrial injury to contractors employees in accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington. The contractor shall be responsible for Workers Compensation Insurance for any subcontractor of any tier that provides services under the Contract. Contractor hereby assumes all risk of damage to its property, or injury to its officers, directors, agents, contractors, or invitees and hereby waives all claims against the City. Contractor further waives, with respect to the City only, its immunity under RCW Title 51, Industrial Insurance, of the Revised Code of Washington.

 3. DEDUCTIBLES OR SELF-INSURED RETENTIONS

 If the contractor's insurance contains a deductible or self-insured retention in excess of $50,000, the contractor shall disclose such amount. SMS shall inform the City if this is the case and the City reserves the right to approve any insurance policy with such a deductible or self-insured retention amount based on its evaluation of the risk bearing capacity of the contractor. The contractor shall be responsible for payment of any claim within the deductible or self- insured retention amount.

 4. CONDITIONS

 The insurance required herein shall:

 A. Be subject to approval by SMS as to company, form, and coverage. The insurer

 shall be:

 1. Licensed to do business in the State of Washington and rated A-VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide,

 2. Filed as surplus lines by a Washington State licensed surplus lines broker, or

 3. As may otherwise be approved by SMS after consultation with the City.

 B. Be maintained in full force and effect through the Physical Completion Date.

 C. Protect SMS and the City from losses, claims, actions, damages, and expenses arising out of or resulting from the contractor's performance or lack of performance under the scope of work.

 5. SMS FURNISHED PROPERTY INSURANCE

 If SMS shall determine that its property insurer is providing the equivalent of Builder's Risk Property Insurance on the trains, guideway and associated property and equipment written on an "All Risks" basis (including earthquake and flood) under its existing property insurance policy No. TW307, it shall provide such coverage at no cost to the City. If SMS is unable to reasonably provide Builder's Risk insurance, upon its written request the City shall provide such Builder's Risk Property Insurance. SMS shall be a loss payee and the cost of this insurance will be included as a Project Repair cost as defined in Section B.1.e.

 6. EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE

 Prior to performing any scope of work, the contractor shall cause to be delivered to SMS by mail, fax, email attachment or express mail the following evidence of insurance:

 A. A certificate of insurance specifying the types and scope of coverages and minimum limits of liability required herein with the notation: "SMS Monorail Repair".

 B. The Certificate shall provide that the commercial general liability and commercial automobile liability insurance policies shall not be terminated without providing at least forty-five (45) days prior written notice to SMS, except ten (10) days as respects cancellation for nonpayment of premium. Otherwise, any policy filed as surplus lines by a Washington State licensed surplus lines broker shall not be terminated without providing at least thirty (30) days prior written notice to SMS, except ten (10) days as respects cancellation for nonpayment of premium."

 C. A copy of the actual additional insured endorsement or copy of the blanket additional insured policy wording documenting that SMS and the City of Seattle are included as additional insureds under the Commercial General Liability insurance policy.

 The City reserves the right to inspect this evidence upon written notice to SMS.

 Any questions or issues by SMS or by contractors' authorized insurance representatives relating to Evidence of Insurance should be directed to City of Seattle Risk Management Division at telephone (206) 386- 0071 or by email at riskmanagement@seattle.gov.

 Page 1 of 3 Exhibit C to Att. 1 to Monorail Fifth Concession Amendment Ordinance

 January 31, 2005

```
