

********

**Council Bill Number: 115194**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121750**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Department of Transportation; authorizing the acceptance of a deed and two easements located in portions of Section 6, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, Willamette Meridian for street and related purposes in connection with the SR 519 Project.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 14, 2005
   
**Vote:** 5-0 (Excused: Della, Godden, Licata McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 24, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 24, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 7, 2005
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEEDS, EASEMENTS, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICT, HIGHWAYS, STREETS, IMPROVEMENT, LAND-ACQUISITION

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 120949, 121055

**Fiscal Note:**115194

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Department of Transportation; authorizing the acceptance of a deed and two easements located in portions of Section 6, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, Willamette Meridian for street and related purposes in connection with the SR 519 Project.

 WHEREAS, the SR 519 project will reduce congestion, permit a more efficient flow of traffic, and help generate faster emergency response times by improving levels of service on Alaskan Way near the intersections of South Royal Brougham Way and South Atlantic Street; and

 WHEREAS, the SR 519 project will increase freight and passenger mobility and vehicle safety between Alaskan Way and I-5; and

 WHEREAS, the SR 519 project will benefit the Puget Sound region by increasing traffic and pedestrian safety, easing congestion, and ultimately reducing the cost of goods moving into and through the Pacific Northwest; and

 WHEREAS, the acquisition of the parcel and the easements is identified and authorized by Ordinances 120949 and 121055; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle City Council wishes to authorize the acceptance of a deed and easements for the SR 519 project in connection with its anticipated street improvements to Alaskan Way; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Quit Claim Deed executed by grantor Union Pacific Railroad Company and recorded under King County Recording Number 20030612003261 conveying the following described real property situated in Seattle, King County, a copy of which is attached hereto as Attachment A is hereby accepted for street and related purposes in connection with the SR 519 project:

 Parcel B: That portion of the southeast quarter of Section 6, Township

 24 North, Range 4 East, Willamette Meridian identified in the exhibit

 attached hereto and more particularly described as follows:

 Beginning at the southwest corner of Lot 11, Block 331 Plat of the

 Seattle Tidelands as surveyed and platted by the Board of Appraisers

 of Tide and Shore Lands for King County Washington in 1894-1895, said

 point being the True Point of Beginning (TPOB);

 Thence N 00ø 00' 06" E., 55.00 feet along the west line of said Block;

 Thence S. 34ø 38' 48" E., 66.84 feet to the north margin of South

 Atlantic Street;

 Thence N 89ø 58' 44" W., 38.00 feet along said north margin to the

 TPOB;

 Containing an area of 1045 square feet, more or less.

 Section 2. Easement C executed by the Port of Seattle, and recorded under King County Recording Number #20041223000113 conveying the following described real property situated in Seattle, King County, a copy of which is attached hereto as Attachment B is hereby accepted for the installation, maintenance, and operation of utilities, landscaping and appurtenances necessary for the operation of City services.

 Easement C: That portion of Blocks 369, 368 and 367 of Seattle Tidelands as Surveyed and Platted by The Board of Appraisers of Tide and Shore Lands for King County Washington in 1894-1895, situated within the East half of Section 6, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, Willamette Meridian described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of Lot 9, Block 369 of said Seattle Tidelands; Thence South 17ø 14' 15" West, along the westerly right-of- way margin of Alaskan Way South a distance of 1.43 feet, to the Northeasterly property corner as shown on a Record of Survey for the United States Coast Guard, King County Recorder's No. 8409079006, and the Point of Beginning;

 Thence North 89ø 59' 48" West a distance of 13.55 feet along the northerly property line of said United States Coast Guard parcel;

 Thence North 05ø46'14" East, 6.90 feet;

 Thence North 10ø 05' 18" West, 33.90 feet;

 Thence North 29ø 47'58" West, 53.53 feet;

 Thence North 16ø 23' 58" East, 41.89 feet;

 Thence South 36ø 25' 54" East, 40.96 feet;

 Thence North 10ø 05' 18" East, 198.26 feet;

 Thence South 72ø 45' 45" East, 50.00 feet to a point on said street margin, hereafter to be known as Point "A";

 Thence South 17ø 14' 15" West, along said street margin a distance of 287.20 feet to the Point of Beginning.

 Together with a strip of land 12 feet in width lying westerly of, parallel with and adjacent to the following described line:

 Beginning at Point "A"; thence northerly along said street margin a distance of 1921.03 feet to the Northeast corner of Lot 15, Block 367 of Seattle Tidelands and terminus of said line;

 Containing 33,867 square feet or 0.78 acres, more or less.

 Section 3. Easement D executed by the Port of Seattle, and recorded under King County Recording Number #20041223000112 conveying the following described real property situated in Seattle, King County a copy of which is attached hereto as Attachment C is hereby accepted for the installation, operation, and maintenance of a railroad spur track, including street appurtenances for the construction of this project, and the operation of City of Seattle right of way.

 Easement D: A strip of land varying in width from 21.50 feet to 19.50 feet, lying within Blocks 369, 368 and 367 of Seattle Tidelands as Surveyed and Platted by The Board of Appraisers of Tide and Shore Lands for King County Washington in 1894-1895, situated in the Southeast quarter of Section 6, Township 24, Range 4 East, Willamette Meridian, the centerline of which is describe as follows:

 Commencing at the Northeast corner of Lot 7, Block 369 of said Seattle Tidelands;

 Thence North 17ø 14' 15" East along the westerly right-of-way margin of Alaskan Way South a distance of 18.91 feet to the Point of Beginning of a 21.50 foot wide portion of said strip, laying 10.00 feet on the easterly side and 11.50 feet on the westerly side of the arc of a 716.78 foot radius curve, which center bears South 86ø 38' 54" East;

 Thence northeasterly along the arc of said curve, through a central angle of 13ø 53' 27", a distance of 173.78 feet, to the beginning of a transition from a 21.50 foot wide to a 19.50 foot wide strip along the following described centerline;

 Thence North 17ø 14' 33" East a distance of 100.00 feet to the termination of said transition and the beginning of an 19.50 foot wide strip laying 9.00 feet on the easterly side and 10.50 feet on the westerly side of the following described centerline; North 17ø 14' 33" East a distance of 402.56 feet to the beginning of a 1418.50 foot radius curve, which center bears North 72ø 45' 27" West;

 Thence northwesterly along the arc of said curve, through a central angle of 17ø 15' 03" a distance of 427.09 feet; Thence North 0ø 00' 30" East a distance of 879.78 feet to the terminus of said centerline.

 The sidelines of said strip to be lengthened or shortened to terminate at the westerly right-of-way margin of Alaskan Way S at the beginning of said strip;

 Containing 39,146 square feet or 0.90 acres, more or less.

 Section 4. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance, including expenditures consistent with the purpose of this ordinance, is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit A - SR 519 Surface Improvements Map

 Attachment A - Quitclaim Deed

 Attachment B - Easement C

 Attachment C - Easement D

 Bill Anderson/BA

 SDOT.SR519AcceptanceOrd

 February 7, 2005

 version #3

 1

 EASEMENT C

 The Grantor, PORT OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("Port") hereby grants, conveys and quitclaims to the CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("City"), for the following purposes, a non-exclusive easement over and across the real property described in Exhibit A ("Property") in King County, Washington.

 This Easement is subject to the following terms and conditions:

 I. Purpose. The City may use the Property for the installation, maintenance, and operation of utilities, landscaping and appurtenances necessary for the operation of City services. The Port must give prior written approval for the design and construction (including scheduling) relating to the above items that will be constructed and maintained on the Property. The City warrants it will utilize "100% Organic Practices (no use of chemicals)" for all landscape maintenance within the Easement.

 2. The Port's Use of Easement. The Port reserves the right to use the Property for any purpose not inconsistent with the approved installation, operation and maintenance of utilities, landscaping, and other street appurtenances. The Port, in addition to this general reservation, has the right to construct and allow the use of roads or other transportation corridors and utilities across the Property.

 3. Environmental Liability. In the event the City or any other assignee is named as a defendant in a suit or other claim or proceeding alleging injury, damages or loss resulting from pre- existing Hazardous Substance on the property, the Port will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City and any other assignee harmless from all liability arising out of claims of such damages to the extent that they are a result of any pre-existing Hazardous Substances. "Hazardous Substances" means any substance or material defined or designated as a hazardous waste, toxic substance, or other pollutant or contaminant, by any environmentally related local, state or federal law, regulation, ordinance or order (including without limitation any final order of any court of competent jurisdiction), now or hereafter in effect.

 4. Indemnity.

 The Port, its employees and agents shall not be liable for any injury (including death) to any persons or for damage to any property regardless of how such injury or damage be caused, sustained or alleged to have been sustained by the City or by others, including but not limited to all persons directly or indirectly employed by the City, or any agents, contractors, subcontractors, licensees, or invitees of the City, as a result of any condition (including existing or future defects in the Property) or occurrence (including failure or interruption of utility service) whatsoever related in

 1

 any way to the Property, or related in any way to the City's or any agents, contractors, subcontractors, licensees, or invitees of the City's use or occupancy of the Property. The City agrees to defend and to hold and save the Port harmless from all liability or expenses (including attorneys' fees, costs, and all expenses of litigation) in connection with any such items of actual or alleged injury or damage, except when such injury or damage is caused by the sole negligence of the Port. The City expressly agrees that its duty to defend and indemnify the Port includes negligent acts that are concurrent, contributory, or both by the Port, resulting in said damage or injury. However to the extent this Easement is construed to be subject to RCW 4.24.115, and where the injury or damage arises from the concurrent negligence of the Port and the City, the City's indemnity will only extend to its own negligence.

 5. Abandonment. The rights, privileges and authority granted under this Easement will continue and be in force until such time as the City, its successors or assigns, ceases to use the adjoining rail spur easement for the prescribed uses for a period of twelve (12) months, at which time all such rights, privileges, and authority granted by this easement, shall terminate.

 6. Successors and Assigns. The rights and obligations of the parties shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon their respective successors and assigns.

 7. No Conveyance of Fee. The parties expressly agree that there is no intent to convey any other rights except those that are granted in this Easement. The parties do not intend for this Easement to convey fee title in any form or any other interest other than a non-exclusive easement.

 8. Rights Available to the Port., The City agrees it will fully extend to the Port the benefits (including indemnity protections) of any agreement the City executes with any third party for use of the property.

 DATED this _____day of _________ _, ________.

 GRANTOR-PORT OF SEATTLE

 __________________________________________

 By ______________________________________

 Its

 GRANTEE-CITY OF SEATTLE

 ________________________________________

 By

 Its

 2

 STATE OF WASHINGTON)

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 This is to certify that on the _____day of , ________, before me, the

 undersigned Notary Public, personally appeared , to me known to be the_________________________________, of the Port of Seattle that executed the foregoing instrument, aid acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of the Port of Seattle, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned,

 and on oath stated that ____ was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal, the day and year first above written.

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at _____________

 My Commission Expires:

 Print Name: ______________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON)

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 This is to certify that on the day of , , before me, the

 undersigned Notary Public, personally appeared , to me

 known to be the of the City of Seattle, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of the City of

 Seattle, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal, the day and year first above written.

 _________________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at

 My Commission Expires:

 Print Name:

 3

 1

 Attachment B

 2

 Attachment B

 3

 Attachment B

 EASEMENT_D

 The Grantor, PORTOF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("City"), hereby grants, conveys and quitclaims to the CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("City"), for the following purposes, a non-exclusive easement over and across the real property described in Exhibit A ("Property") in King County, Washington.

 This Easement is subject to the following terms and conditions:

 1. Purpose. The City may use the Property for the installation, operation, and maintenance of a railroad spur track including street appurtenance for the construction of this project, and the operation of City of Seattle right of way. The Port must give prior written approval for the design and construction (including scheduling), relating to the spur track to occur on the Property, which approval shall not be unreasonably, withheld, delayed, or conditioned. The Port must also give prior written approval for all other additional uses or improvements to be built on the Property. The City will not allow the use of the tracks for storage of rail cars for longer than four hours, except in an emergency.

 2. The Port Use of Easement. The Port reserves the right to use the Property for any purpose not inconsistent with installation, operation and maintenance of a railroad spur track. The Port, in addition to this general reservation, have the right to construct and allow the use of roads or other transportation corridors and utilities across the Property, in uses not inconsistent with this Easement. The Port will exercise all commercially reasonable efforts to minimize disruptions to rail spur operations during such activity and use.

 3. Environmental Liability. In the event the City or any other assignee is named as a defendant in a suit or other claim or proceeding alleging injury, damages or loss resulting from pre- existing Hazardous Substances on the Property. The Port will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City and any other assignee harmless from all liabilities arising out of claims of such damages to the extent that they are a result of any pre-existing hazardous substances. "Hazardous Substances" means any substance or material defined or designated as a hazardous waste, toxic substance, or other pollutant or contaminant, by any environmentally related local, state or federal law, regulation, ordinance or order (including without limitation any final order of any court of competent jurisdiction), now or hereafter in effect.

 4. Indemnity. The Port, its employees, and agents shall not be liable for any injury (including death) to any persons or for damage to any property regardless of how such injury or damage be caused, sustained or alleged to have been sustained by City or by others, including but not limited to all persons directly or indirectly employed by City, or any agents, contractors, subcontractors, licensees, assignees or invitees of City, as a result of any condition (including existing or future defects in the Property), or occurrence (including failure or interruption of utility service) whatsoever related in any way to the Property or related in any way to the City's or any agents, contractors, subcontractors, licensees, assignees or invitees of City's use or occupancy of the Property. The City agrees to defend and to hold and save the Port harmless from all liability or expenses (including attorneys' fees, costs, and all expenses of litigation) in connection with any such items of actual or alleged injury or damage, except when such injury or damage is caused by the negligence of the Port. The City expressly agrees that its duty to defend and indemnify the Port includes negligent acts that are concurrent, contributory, or both by the Port, resulting in said damage or injury. However to the extent this Easement is construed to be subject to RCW 4.24.115, and where the injury or damage arises from the concurrent negligence of the Port and the City, the City's indemnity will only extend to its own negligence.

 B. If the Port is required to execute any agreements or permits as a condition for the construction of roads, transportation corridors, or utilities across the Property, the City agrees to fully defend, indemnify and hold the Port harmless from all obligations and liability that may accrue to the Port arising out of the terms of such agreements or permits. However, to the extent the agreements or permits are construed to be subject to RCW 4.24.115, and where Port liability arises from the concurrent negligence of the Port and the City, the City's indemnity will only extend to its negligence.

 5. Abandonment. The rights, titles, privileges and authority granted under this Easement will continue and be in force until such time as City, its successors or assigns, ceases to use the Property for the prescribed uses for a period of twelve (12) months, at which time all such rights, title, privileges and authority granted shall terminate and revert to the Port. The Port will issue a notice to City indicating that the twelve month period has passed and City or the user of the rail track must provide evidence to the Port within thirty (30) days that rail activity has occurred within the appropriate twelve month period. Failure to respond within the 30-day period will be deemed an admission that there has been no activity during the 12- month period.

 6. Successors and Assigns. The rights and obligations of the parties shall inure to he benefit of and be binding upon their respective successors and assigns. The City may not assign this Easement to any third party other than BNSF, and its joint operating partners without the Port's prior written consent.

 7. No Conveyance of Fee. The parties expressly agree that there is no intent to convey any other rights except those that are granted I this Easement. The parties do not intend for this Easement to convey fee title in any form or any other interest other than a non-exclusive easement.

 8. Rights Available to the Port., The City agrees it will fully extend to the Port the benefits (including indemnity protections) of any agreement the City executes with any third party for use of the Property.

 9. Relocation of the Rail Spur. The parties acknowledge that the Port may develop Port-owned property in the future. In order to maintain its development options, the Port reserved the right to relocate the rail spur, subject to the following conditions:

 A. The City will, following five years prior written notice from the Port, relocate the rail spur on Port land at Terminal 46 or onto land not owned by the Port. If the new location is on Port land at Terminal 46, the location must be acceptable to the Port. In no event will the Port nor any other assignee, bear any cost or liability for this relocation.

 B. If the Port gives less than five years prior written notice of relocation, and the relocation will be on Port-owned land at Terminal 46, the Port will undertake the relocation. In no event will the City nor any other assignee bear any cost for this relocation.

 C. The Port agrees that, at any time, if the rail spur is relocated on Port-owned property, the location will be on the premises of Terminal 46, and that the relocated spur will provide equivalent service as the initial rail spur to be built by the City under this Easement. The parties agree to execute a new easement for the new location, and include all the rights and conditions described in this easement to the new rail spur location on Port property.

 DATED this __________ day of __________________, 200_.

 GRANTOR-THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 ________________________________________

 By: Grace Crunican

 Its Director of Transportation

 GRANTEE-CITY

 __________________________________________

 By: ____________________________________

 Its: ____________________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON)

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 This is to certify that on the day of ______________, _____, before me, the undersigned Notary Public, personally appeared _______________________, to me known to be the _____________________________, of the Port of Seattle that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of the City of Seattle, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that _____ was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal, the day and year first above written.

 _______________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for

 The State of Washington, residing

 At ___________

 My Commission Expires: ___________

 Print Name: ______________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 This is to certify that on the ____ day of _______________, _____, before me, the undersigned Notary Public, personally appeared __________________________, to me known to be the __________________________, of City of Seattle, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of City of Seattle, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that _____ was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal, the day and year first above written.

 _______________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for

 The State of Washington

 Residing at _____________________

 My Commission Expires: ___________

 Print Name: ______________________

 1

 Attachment C

```
