

********

**Council Bill Number: 115188**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121748**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to sign a lease with MLMA LLC for property located at 800 Maynard Avenue South.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 7, 2005
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 16, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 16, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 22, 2005
   
**Committee:** Parks, Neighborhoods & Education
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** OFFICE-FACILITIES, LEASES, DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, INTERNATIONAL-DISTRICT

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 112207

**Fiscal Note:**115188

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to sign a lease with MLMA LLC for property located at 800 Maynard Avenue South.

 WHEREAS, since 1998, the Department of Parks and Recreation, Planning and Development Division, and Accounting and Computer Resources Sections have occupied approximately 25,000 square feet of leased space at the building known as the RDA building at 800 Maynard Avenue South; and

 WHEREAS, the needs for space at that location have continued and will continue for the foreseeable future; and

 WHEREAS, the City has concluded negotiations resulting in a five year lease for 24,153 square feet, with a net reduction of rent from the previous lease; and

 WHEREAS, no other space has been identified that would be more conveniently located, in better condition and less expensive, NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation (the Superintendent) and recommended by the Mayor, the Superintendent is authorized to execute a lease substantially in the form of the lease included as Attachment 1.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Lease Agreement

 Terry Dunning

 DPR RDA Lease ORD

 1-6-05

 version #2

 1

 LEASE AGREEMENT

 between

 MLMA LLC

 A Washington Limited Liability Company

 (Successor in Interest to Rainier Dearborn Associates)

 and

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 regarding

 The RDA Building - 800 Maynard Avenue S.

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 1. LEASE DATA: EXHIBITS

 A. Building

 B. Premises

 C. Common Areas

 D. Landlord's Property

 E. Commencement Date

 F. Expiration Date

 G. Rent and other provisions

 H. Security Deposit

 I. Notice Addresses

 J. Exhibits

 2. LEASE OF PREMISES

 3. RIGHT OF FIRST OPPORTUNITY

 4. PERMITTED USES & PURPOSES

 5. RENT AND ADDITIONAL RENT

 6. CITY'S SHARE OF OPERATING COSTS AND REAL PROPERTY TAXES ASSOCIATED WITH LANDLORD'S PROPERTY

 7. POSSESSION

 8. CONDITION OF PREMISES UPON COMMENCEMENT DATE

 9. ACCESS

 10. UTILITIES AND OTHER SERVICES

 11. CARE OF PREMISES

 12. MAINTENANCE - REPAIRS

 13. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION

 14. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 15. QUIET ENJOYMENT

 16. INDEMNIFICATION

 17. INSURANCE

 18. ALTERATIONS, ADDITIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS

 19. EMINENT DOMAIN

 20. DEFAULT AND TERMINATION

 21. FORCE MAJEURE

 22. SURRENDER OF PREMISES

 23. ASSIGNMENT BY LANDLORD

 24. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING BY THE CITY

 25. SUBORDINATION & ATTORNMENT

 26. NOTICES

 27. NO RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN LANDLORD AND CITY CREATED BY LEASE

 28. BROKERAGE FEES

 29. ATTORNEY'S FEES

 30. AMENDMENTS

 31. NO WAIVER OF DEFAULT; NO LIEN

 32. APPLICABLE LAW; VENUE

 33. BINDING EFFECT; JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY OF LANDOORD

 34. SURVIVAL OF PROVISIONS

 35. HEADINGS

 36. CONTEXT

 37. AUTHORITY AND LIABILITY OF EACH PARTY

 38. INVALIDITY OF PROVISIONS

 39. TIME OF ESSENCE; TIME CALCULATION METHOD

 40. ENTIRE AGREEMENT; APPLICABLE LAW

 41. NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT

 42. EFFECTUATION OF AGREEMENT

 43. LATE CHARGE; INTEREST

 44. LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES

 LEASE AGREEMENT

 THIS LEASE AGREEMENT is entered into by and between MLMA LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company (hereinafter referred to as the "Landlord"), and THE CITY OF SEATTLE (hereinafter referred to as the "City"), a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, as Lessee.

 1. Lease Data; Exhibits.

 The following terms shall have the following meanings, except as otherwise specifically modified in this Lease:

 A. Building: The "RDA Building" located at 800 Maynard Avenue South, Seattle, Washington 98134, which consists of approximately 114,081 square feet (68,080 Total Office Rentable Square Feet) of space situated on real property described more particularly in Subsection 1.D.

 B. Premises: The Premises consists of the following: approximately 24,153 square feet of space located on floor 2 (6,267 sf), floor 3 (13,850 sf) and floor 4 (2,966 sf) (totaling 23,083 sf of office space) and basement warehouse space, (1070 sf) in the Building; together with 26 outside vehicular parking spaces, all as illustrated on the floor and site plan attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "Floor and Site Plan of Premises").

 C. Common Areas: All areas situated on the Landlord's Property that are for use by tenants of such property, in common, including but not limited to parking areas, streets, driveways, sidewalks, curbs, delivery passages, loading areas, and lighting facilities.

 D. Landlord's Property: The Premises are located in the Building on property legally defined as follows:

 LOTS 5 through 7, block 8 Terry's 5th Addition as recorded in Vol. 2 of Plats, page 55, Records of King County, Washington, together with on - site parking described as: Lots 7 and 8, Block 208, Seattle Tide Lands Addition (an unrecorded plat) together with Lot 1 and North 20 Feet of Lots 3, 4, and 8, Block 1 Plummers Addition.

 E. Commencement Date: The commencement date of this Lease shall be the date of the latter signature of the lease by each of the parties hereto except that rent shall be deemed to have commenced on January 1, 2004 in accordance with that business terms agreement proposed and accepted on September 19, 2003.

 F. Expiration Date: The end of the fifth (5th) year after the Commencement Date, unless the Term of this Lease is extended pursuant to agreement between the parties or this Lease is terminated earlier pursuant to Section 20.

 G. Rent and other provisions of the lease shall be consistent with that business terms letter signed by the parties hereto on September 19, 2003 and as modified by mutual consent by both parties by letter of Nov 8, 2004 and attached hereto as Exhibit B. Rent is more specifically described in Section 5 below.

 (1) Additional Rent and City's Share of Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes. The City shall also pay to Landlord Additional Rent as contemplated in Subsection 7.B and the City's pro rata Share of Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes associated with Landlord's Property as specified in Section 8 hereof.

 H. Security Deposit: None.

 I. Notice Addresses:

 To Landlord: MLMA LLC

 P.O. Box 1253

 Mercer Island, WA 98040

 C/O Cushman and Wakefield

 1420 5th Avenue S. Suite 2900

 Seattle, WA

 To City: Planning and Development Division

 Parks & Recreation Department

 The City of Seattle

 800 Maynard Avenue South

 Seattle, Washington 98134

 Attn: Property Manager

 J. Exhibits: The following exhibits are attached hereto and by this reference, are made a part of this Lease:

 Exhibit A - Site Plan and Floor Plan of Premises

 Exhibit B - Amended business terms agreement

 Exhibit D - Janitorial Bid Specifications

 2. LEASE OF PREMISES

 Landlord hereby leases to the City, and the City hereby leases from Landlord, the Premises, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 3. RIGHT OF FIRST OPPORTUNITY

 This Right of First Opportunity shall apply to all of the Building. Landlord shall notify Tenant of additional space within the Building as it becomes available for lease. Landlord's notice may not be more than six (6) months prior to the date the offered area will become vacant. Tenant shall have thirty (30) business days from receipt of Landlord's notice to elect to lease the offered area. If Tenant so elects, then the Potential Expansion Area shall be deemed added to the Premises on a date designated by Tenant (the "Expansion Area Addition Date"), which date shall be not less than thirty (30) days after Tenant's election and not more than thirty (30) days after the Expansion Area becomes available for occupancy. On the Expansion Area Addition Date, the following shall occur: (i) the Premises shall be deemed amended to include the Expansion Area; and (ii) Monthly Rent shall be recalculated to reflect the addition of the Expansion Area. Rent for expansion areas shall be consistent with the rent prevailing for space on the same floor rented by Tenant. Any expansion area on the first floor shall have base rent equal to that paid by Tenant for space on the second floor.

 4. PERMITTED USES & PURPOSES; INCLUDING COMMON AREAS

 A. Generally Authorized Uses. The Premises shall be used for general office, storage and such other municipal purposes as the City may deem consistent therewith and do not interfere with the quiet and convenient enjoyment of the Landlord's Property, or any other tenant of Landlord. The recitation of such allowed uses in this section shall not be deemed to be any warranty by Landlord of the suitability of the Landlord's Property or design of the Premises for such uses.

 B. Roof Use for Communications Equipment. Except as otherwise authorized by Landlord, Landlord reserves the exclusive right to use for any purpose whatsoever the roof of the Building, but shall ensure that no such use by Landlord or any other user interferes with the uses described herein. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the City shall not be responsible or liable for the activities of Landlord or any other person on the roof.

 C. Other City-Authorized Premises Users. The City may permit other departments, divisions, or agencies of the City to occupy any of the leased premises without the express permission of the Landlord. Tenant shall notify Landlord at least 5 days prior to any scheduled change in occupancy of the leased premises.

 D. Use of & Changes to Common Areas. The City and its officers, employees, agents and invitees shall have the right to use the Common Areas in common with others. Landlord shall not make any alteration or change to the Common Areas that would materially, adversely affect the City or its use of or access to the Premises.

 5. RENT & ADDITIONAL RENT

 A. Rent: City shall pay monthly rent consisting of rent for the office space at the rate of $16.46 per year per square foot for 23,083 square feet or $31,662.18 per month, rent for basement storage space at the rate of $.45 per square foot per month for 1070 square feet or $481,50 per month, said rent commencing retroactively to January 1, 2004. Total monthly rent shall be $32,143.68. All rents shall be increased by 3% commencing December 15, 2005 and such increased rent shall remain in effect until the termination of this Lease. All rents collected in excess of the rents set forth herein between December 15, 2003 and the final date of execution of this Lease shall be deemed a credit against the remainder of the rents due and payable through January 1, 2005 and the credit due shall be prorated through such term and subtracted from each of the monthly rents due from the date of lease execution and January 1, 2005.

 B. Additional rent: Additional rent for City's share of Operating expenses and parking rents shall be billed as set forth as follows: Parking shall be paid at the rate of $90 per space per month for 26 (twenty-six) spaces or $2340 per month throughout the term of this Lease. Other additional rent shall include City's share of Operating expenses and described in Section 6 below.

 C. Prorating of Monthly Rent. Monthly Rent and any Additional Rent shall be prorated on a daily basis for any partial month within the lease term.

 D. Time for Payment of Monthly Rent & Additional Rent. Rent pursuant to Subsections 5A and 5B shall be payable in advance, on or by the first day of each month during the term hereof, except that if the Commencement Date is other than the first day of a month, the Monthly Rent and Additional Rent for the initial partial month of the term shall be payable with the Monthly Rent and Additional Rent due for the first full month of the initial term of this Lease. Any Operating expenses, "Additional Rent" not billed with monthly rent shall be considered waived and Landlord shall not be entitled to collect such rent at any future date.

 6. CITY'S SHARE OF OPERATING COSTS AND REAL PROPERTY TAXES ASSOCIATED WITH LANDLORD'S PROPERTY

 A. City Payments to be Based upon Landlord's Estimate; Adjustments to Payments. Landlord shall give notice to the City annually, on or by April 15th of each year during the term of this Lease, of Landlord's reasonable estimate of the City's Share of Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes associated with Landlord's Property for that calendar year. The City shall pay a fraction of the City's Share of such Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes based upon Landlord's estimate. The numerator in such fraction shall be one (1) and the denominator shall be the number of full months remaining in the calendar year from and after the date that the City received Landlord's estimate of the City's Share. Such payment shall be made monthly, in advance, on the first (1st) day of each month from and after the date the City received such notice; Provided, that if such notice was received by the City after the fifteenth (15th) day in the month of receipt, then the payment for the first month after the City's receipt of such notice shall be made on or by the thirtieth (30th) day after the City's receipt of such notice. After the end of each year during the term of this Lease, but no later than April 15th of the next succeeding calendar year, Landlord shall compute the actual City's Share for the immediately preceding calendar year and deliver a notice to the City itemizing in reasonable detail all of the Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes and the difference, if any, between the aggregate amount previously paid by the City for such year and the amount due from the City for such year. If the actual City's Share for such year is greater than the aggregate amount already paid by the City for such year based upon Landlord's estimate, the City shall pay Landlord the deficiency within thirty (30) days after the City's receipt and approval of an invoice therefor. If the total amount paid by the City under this Section 6 as Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes associated with Landlord's Property for any calendar year exceeds the actual City's Share for that year, then Landlord shall credit such excess to the payment of Base Monthly Rent, Additional Rent, and the City's Share of Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes thereafter coming due until such excess payment has been exhausted; Provided, however, if such excess payment has not been exhausted prior to the expiration or sooner termination of the lease term, Landlord shall refund such excess to the City. If Landlord obtains information during any calendar year regarding Operating Costs or Real Property Taxes associated with Landlord's Property that alters Landlord's prior estimate by more than ten percent (10%), Landlord may adjust the amount due from the City under this Section during the balance of that calendar year to reflect such new information by giving the City notice thereof and a copy of all data upon which such adjustment is based.

 B. Definitions. For purposes of this Section 8, the following definitions shall apply:

 (1) "Operating Costs" shall mean all expenses paid or incurred by Landlord in connection with owning, maintaining, operating, insuring, repairing and administering Landlord's Property and the personal property used in conjunction therewith, including, without limitation, the costs of refuse collection, water, sewer, fire protection and other utilities and services for which the City is not separately obligated hereunder to pay for, directly; all supplies, materials, labor, equipment, service contracts, insurance and utilities to the extent used directly in operation, maintenance and repair of the Landlord's Property or Common Areas, equipment rental charges; snow removal; security services and systems; landscape maintenance; services of independent contractors; compensation (including employment taxes, insurance and fringe benefits) of all persons who perform duties in connection with the operation, maintenance, repair and administration, of Landlord's Property, its equipment and facilities (but only to the extent they provide services with respect to Landlord's Property, and not to any other property owned by Landlord); insurance premiums for all insurance carried by Landlord with respect to Landlord's Property (but not with respect to other property owned by Landlord) and the personal property used in connection with Landlord's Property and the amount of any deductible paid or assumed in connection with a loss or claim directly associated with the Landlord's Property and no other property owned by Landlord; licenses, permits and inspection fees directly associated with Landlord's Property and no other property owned by Landlord; subsidies and other payments required by public bodies and costs incurred in connection with compliance with governmental requirements including, but not limited to, public transportation and parking associated with Landlord's Property and no other property owned by Landlord; amounts amortized by Landlord to cover the cost of replacements of systems and equipment and capital improvements designed to improve the operating efficiency of Landlord's Property, with such amortization based on the estimated useful lives of such items and annualized on a straight line basis, over such useful lives and any other cost or expense designated by this Lease to be an Operating Cost. In calculating Operating Costs, Landlord shall not include any item of cost more than once.

 Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Operating Costs" shall not include any of the following:

 (a) the cost of repairs or other work occasioned by fire, windstorm or other casualty when such costs are reimbursed to Landlord by insurers or would have been so reimbursed to Landlord if Landlord had been in full compliance with the insurance provisions of this Lease, or repairs or other work by or on behalf of any governmental authority exercising the power of eminent domain, or by any other person or entity;

 (b) leasing commissions, broker fees, legal fees, costs and disbursements and other expenses incurred in connection with any negotiation or dispute with any tenant, other occupant, or prospective tenant or other occupant of any portion of Landlord's Property and all other legal fees and costs, whether or not in connection with the foregoing;

 (c) costs incurred in renovating or otherwise improving or decorating or redecorating space for any tenant or other occupant in the Building or vacant space in the Building (including without limitation any allowance or inducement made to any other tenant or occupant);

 (d) costs of correcting defects in the construction of the Building (including latent defects in the Building) or in the Building equipment, except that for the purposes of this subparagraph, conditions (not occasioned by construction defects) resulting from general maintenance and repair (including but not limited to painting of Common Areas or replacement of carpet, even though treated as a "capital expense" for accounting purposes) and ordinary wear and tear and use shall not be deemed defects and may be charged as an Operating Cost;

 (e) the costs of HVAC, electricity or any other utility or service furnished to any tenant (including the City) for which Landlord or the utility or service provider is entitled to be directly reimbursed or compensated by a tenant (whether or not actually collected by Landlord or such utility or service provider) as a separate charge;

 (f) costs incurred by Landlord for alterations and replacements that are considered capital expenditures under generally accepted cash basis accounting principles, consistently applied, except as otherwise expressly provided herein;

 (g) costs incurred due to the violation by Landlord or any tenant or other person or entity of any of the terms and conditions of any lease or other agreement pertaining to the Landlord's Property or any portion thereof or of any applicable legal requirement, building code, regulation or law or incurred due to the Landlord's Property or any portion thereof being in violation of any such legal requirement, building code, regulation or law, or costs incurred due to any act or omission of any tenant causing an increase in the rate of insurance on the Building or its contents;

 (h) any overhead or profit increment paid to a subsidiary, affiliate, partner or member of Landlord or any component of Landlord for any service on or to the Building, to the extent that the costs of such service exceed competitive costs for such service rendered by an unaffiliated third person or entity of similar skill, competence and experience;

 (i) principal and interest on any debt or rental under any ground or underlying lease;

 (j) costs of Landlord's general overhead and general administrative expenses, that would not be chargeable as an Operating Cost in accordance with generally accepted cash basis accounting principles, consistently applied; Provided, Operating Costs may include a third- party property market rate management fee not to exceed three and one- half percent (3.5%) of rents payable hereunder with the exception of Additional Rent;

 (k) any cost or expense to the extent Landlord is entitled to payment or reimbursement from any tenant (including the City), insurer or other person (other than through payment of its proportionate share of Operating Costs) or for which any tenant (including the City) pays a third person;

 (l) any other expense that, under generally accepted cash basis accounting principles, consistently applied, would not be classified as a normal maintenance or operating cost of the Building;

 (m) any expenses relating to repairs or replacements of the foundation, exterior or interior structural walls, or roof of the Building or of latent defects;

 (n) any fines, penalties, legal judgments or settlements of causes of action by or against Landlord;

 (o) costs of Landlord's commercial liability insurance;

 (p) any income, inheritance, gift or estate taxes imposed by any authority having the direct or indirect power to tax any legal or equitable interest of Landlord in the Landlord's Property or Landlord's right to rent or other income therefrom;

 (q) depreciation or amortization of the original cost of Landlord's Property; or

 (r) Real Property Taxes.

 (2) "Real Property Taxes" shall mean all taxes of every kind and nature on Landlord's Property and on personal property used by Landlord in conjunction therewith; surcharges and all local improvement and other assessments levied with respect to Landlord's Property and all other property of Landlord used in connection with the operation of Landlord's Property.

 (3) "City's Share" shall mean the dollar amount of the total, annual Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes multiplied by 66.6%.

 C. Audit. The City may audit Landlord's books and records and Landlord's itemized statement of Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes once per year; and Landlord shall make its books and records available to the City for such purpose. If the City's audit reveals an overcharge or undercharge of Additional Rent under this Lease, then an appropriate adjustment shall be made by the party owing money to the other party. In addition, if the City's audit reveals an overcharge of more than five percent (5%) of the City's Share of Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes, then Landlord shall pay the reasonable costs of such City audit so long as such audit was performed by a nationally recognized accounting firm and is not based on a contingent fee, which payment shall be made within thirty (30) days of Landlord's receipt of an invoice therefor.

 7. POSSESSION

 In the event of the inability of Landlord to deliver possession of the Premises, or any portion thereof, at the time of the commencement of the term of this Lease, the City shall not be liable for any Base Monthly Rent, Additional Rent, or other expense related to the Premises until such time as Landlord can deliver possession except as provided in the next sentence. In the event that, by mutual agreement, the City takes possession of the Premises, or any part thereof, prior to the commencement of the specified term of this Lease, the City shall pay as Base Monthly Rent Additional Rent, the City's Share of Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes and any other payments due under this Lease for that additional period the percentage of the Base Monthly Rent that is payable under Subsection 1.G that is equivalent to the percentage of the area of the Premises actually occupied by the City during said period, adjusted as provided in Section 12 hereof.

 8. CONDITION OF PREMISES UPON COMMENCEMENT DATE

 Landlord shall deliver the Premises to the City upon the Commencement Date, and the City shall accept possession of the Premises in substantially the condition of the Premises at the date of mutual execution of this Lease. Upon such delivery of the Premises, the City shall inspect the same and, except for latent defects or deficiencies not readily discernable by inspection, shall be deemed to have accepted the Premises in their then-present condition unless the City notifies Landlord within seven (7) days after the completion of such inspection of any alleged defect(s). The correction of such defects shall be in accordance with maintenance and repair provisions otherwise described in Sections 12 and 13 of this Lease.

 9. ACCESS

 A. Access by Landlord. Landlord reserves and shall have the right at all reasonable times during the City's business hours, after having given twenty-four (24) hours prior notice to the City (except in the case of emergencies), to enter the Premises to inspect the same, to post notices of non-responsibility, or to make any repair, addition or alteration to the Premises or any connected property owned by or under the control of Landlord. This right of access shall not be construed as an agreement on the part of Landlord to make any such repairs, additions or alterations. Landlord also reserves and shall have the right at all reasonable times during the City's business hours, after having given twenty-four (24) hours prior notice to the City, to enter the Premises during the last twelve (12) months of the Lease Term to show said Premises to prospective purchasers or tenants and to post "for lease" signs on the Premises. For each of the aforesaid purposes, Landlord shall at all times have and retain a key with which to unlock all of the doors in, upon and about the Premises, excluding the doors to the City's files, vaults and safes.

 10. UTILITIES AND OTHER SERVICES

 A. Utility Services. Landlord represents to the City that the natural gas meter for the energy or fuel supply for the HVAC provided to the portion of the Building that is leased to another tenant is not separate from the meter for any energy or fuel supply for the HVAC serving the portion of the Building comprising the Premises hereunder. Landlord shall provide, and shall pay, when due as an Operating Cost, all costs for providing, all utilities that are not separately metered to a tenant, and other services on or to the Premises including but not limited to gas, water, sewer, garbage removal, and security. Landlord shall also provide to the Common Areas all reasonable utilities and services required therefore including but not limited to electricity, water and sewer, light bulb replacement, trash removal, landscaping, and such other services as are customarily provided in similar facilities in the locale of the Building, the charges for which shall be treated as an Operating Cost. The City shall pay all charges for utility installations and modifications thereto occasioned by the City's requirements.

 B. Janitorial Services. The Landlord shall secure and directly pay for whatever janitorial services are desired by the City with respect to the Premises and such services shall be considered Operational expenses as defined above. Services to be provided include those described in Exhibit D, Janitorial Bid Specifications.

 C. Interruption of Utility or Other Service. If and so long as an interruption of a service or utility substantially due to an act, omission of Landlord or any of its officers, employees or agents and not due to an act or omission of the utility provider or to a fire or other casualty or any act or omission of the City or of any City officer, employee or agent (acting as or for the City in its capacity as Lessee rather than as utility service provider) or a force majeure event as defined in this Lease, continues for more than three (3) days after notice of such interruption shall have been given to Landlord, the Base Monthly Rent or Adjusted Base Monthly Rent to be paid hereunder shall be abated, to such an extent as is fair and reasonable under the circumstances, based on the degree of interference, from the date of such interruption until such service or utility is restored to full capacity. If such interruption continues for more than three (3) days after notice of such interruption has been given to Landlord, and such interruption is substantially due to an act or omission of Landlord or any of its officers, employees or agents, the City shall have the right, after giving Landlord notice thereof, to attempt to repair the interruption, without liability to Landlord (except for the City's negligence). If the City attempts any such repair pursuant to this subsection, in addition to being able to abate the Base Monthly Rent or Adjusted Base Monthly Rent as provided herein, the City may offset the cost of such repair effort against any Base Monthly Rent or Adjusted Base Monthly Rent then due and payable or to become due and payable to Landlord.

 11. CARE OF PREMISES

 The City will not permit any waste, damage or injury to the Premises, use or permit in said Premises anything that will increase the rate of fire insurance thereon beyond that associated with the activities described in Section 4, or permit anything to be done upon said Premises that in any way will tend to create a public nuisance.

 12. MAINTENANCE - REPAIRS

 Except as otherwise provided for herein, Landlord shall keep and preserve Landlord's Property including but not limited to all structural and non-structural parts thereof, plumbing, and electrical, gas and other utility systems; and other equipment and appurtenances and the structure in which the Premises are located, in good order, condition and repair, whether such work is foreseen or unforeseen, ordinary or extraordinary. Landlord shall accomplish such work promptly, using first-class materials, in a good and workmanlike manner, in compliance with all applicable laws and in a style, character and quality conforming to the tenant improvement work described in Exhibit B of that prior lease dated June 23 of 1998 between Rainier Dearborn Associates for the premises described herein. Such repairs and replacement shall include, but are not limited to, all necessary repairs and replacements of the Common Area sidewalks, driveways, service areas, curbs and parking areas; the exterior of the Building including its foundation, walls and roof; the water, sewage, gas and electrical lines and installations serving the Building or Common Areas; all repairs and restoration made necessary by fire or other casualty, unless the obligation of Landlord for any such repair or restoration is otherwise limited herein. Except as otherwise provided herein, the City shall keep and preserve, at the City's expense, the Premises and any equipment and appurtenances therein in good order, condition and repair, whether such work is foreseen or unforeseen, ordinary or extraordinary, but shall not be responsible for any repair or replacement that is the subject of any warranty or guarantee given by a third party to Landlord.

 13. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION

 In the event the Premises are damaged by fire, earthquake, act of war, terrorism, or other extraordinary casualty to such an extent as to render the same untenantable in whole or in a substantial part thereof, or are destroyed, it shall be optional with the Lessor to repair or rebuild the same and after the happening of any such event, the City shall give the Lessor or the Lessor's agent written notice thereof within forty-eight (48) hours of such occurrence. The Lessor shall have not more than ten (10) days after the date of such notification to notify the City in writing of the Lessor's intentions to repair or rebuild said Premises; and if the Lessor elects to repair or rebuild said Premises, the Lessor shall prosecute the work of such repairing or rebuilding without unnecessary delay. During any period in which the Premises are rendered unfit for occupancy because of any such casualty, the rent of said Premises shall be abated in the same ratio that the portion of the Premises rendered for time being unfit for occupancy bears to the whole of the Premises. In the event the building in which the Premises are located is destroyed or is damaged (even though the Premises hereby leased is not damaged thereby) to such an extent that, in the opinion of the Lessor, it is not practicable to repair or rebuild, the Lessor may, at its option, terminate the lease by providing written notice thereof to the City within thirty (30) days after such damage or destruction has been determined to be irreparable.

 14. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 A. General Requirement. Each party, at its own expense, shall promptly comply with (1) all applicable provisions of any constitution, law, statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, administrative order, judicial decision, or other requirement of any federal, state, county, municipal, or other governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over either of the parties, that is now or hereafter in effect, whether or not presently contemplated, and that is applicable to the Premises, or its ownership, operation, use or possession, including, without limitation, all those relating to building codes, zoning or other land use matters, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, life safety requirements, environmental compliance with respect to the handling, treatment, storage, disposal, discharge, use and transportation of Hazardous Substances; and (2) all of its insurance policies, to the extent necessary to prevent cancellation and to ensure full payment of all claims made under such policies, covenants, conditions and restrictions and all other agreements applicable to the Premises and its ownership, operation, use or possession.

 B. Licenses and Similar Authorizations. If any governmental license or permit is required for the proper and lawful use of the Premises or Building, the party legally obligated to secure the same shall do so, and thereafter, shall maintain such license or permit in full force and effect and in compliance with all conditions or requirements set forth therein, all at no expense to the other party.

 C. Taxes. Landlord shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies and assessments on the Premises.

 D. Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action. Landlord shall comply with all Federal, State and local laws and ordinances prohibiting discrimination with regard to race, color, national origin, ancestry, creed, religion, age, political ideology, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap.

 E. Compliance with Environmental Laws.

 (1) Definitions. For purposes of this Lease,

 a. "Environmental Law" means, as amended from time to time, the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 42 U.S.C. Section 6901 et seq., Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. Section 9601 et seq., Federal Hazardous Materials Transportation Control Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. Section 1801 et seq., Federal Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 7401 et seq., Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Federal Water Act of 1977, 93 U.S.C. Section 1251 et seq., Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, Federal Pesticide Act of 1978, 7 U.S.C. Section 136 et seq., Federal Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 2601 et seq., Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 300f et seq., Washington Water Pollution Control Act, RCW Chapter 90.48, Washington Clean Air Act, RCW Chapter 70.94, Washington Solid Waste Management Recovery and Recycling Act, RCW Chapter 70.95, Washington Hazardous Waste Management Act, RCW Chapter 70.105, Washington Hazardous Waste Fees Act, RCW Chapter 70.95E, Washington Model Toxics Control Act, RCW Chapter 70.105D, Washington Nuclear Energy and Radiation Act, RCW Chapter 70.98, Washington Radioactive Waste Storage and Transportation Act, RCW Chapter 70.99, Washington Underground Petroleum Storage Tanks Act, RCW Chapter 70.148, and any regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time.

 b. "Hazardous Substance" means any matter including petroleum products and by-products, asbestos, infectious waste and any other materials, which is now or hereafter designated as a hazardous substance pursuant to Section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. 9601, et seq., or that is now or hereafter regulated by applicable Environmental Laws.

 (2) City Compliance with Environmental Laws. All operations or activities upon, or any use or occupancy of the Premises, or any portion thereof, by the City or any City-authorized occupant of the Premises shall be, in all material respects, in compliance with all state, federal and local Environmental Laws and regulations governing or in any way relating to the generation, handling, storage, use, transportation, discharge or disposal (whether legal or illegal, accidental or intentional) of any Hazardous Substances.

 (3) Asbestos Removal. Landlord shall conduct any legally required asbestos surveys of the Premises prior to commencement of any demolition or construction of the tenant improvements described in Exhibit B or any other alteration, modification or addition to the Premises. If Landlord discovers any asbestos or asbestos-containing materials during such a project, Landlord shall encapsulate or remove such materials in compliance with all Environmental Laws at no additional cost to the City which costs shall not be deemed to be Operating Costs within the scope of this Lease.

 15. QUIET ENJOYMENT

 If the City fully complies with and promptly performs all of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Lease on its part to be performed, it shall have quiet enjoyment of the Premises throughout the lease term, subject, however, to matters of record on the effective date hereof and to those matters to which this Lease may be subsequently subordinated.

 16 INDEMNIFICATION

 A. Landlord's Indemnification Obligation. Landlord shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold the City and its officers, employees and agents harmless from and against any and all losses and liability for bodily injury to persons, loss of life and damage to property occurring on or about the Premises and caused by the negligence, recklessness or willful conduct of Landlord or any of its contractors, agents or employees, or the negligent performance or lack of performance by Landlord of any of Landlord's obligations under this Lease; or caused by any fault or defect inherent in the structure that includes the Premises or any defect in or malfunction of the tenant improvement work described herein to be performed by Landlord not discernable by reasonable inspection except to the extent related to design or specification approved by the City.

 B. City's Indemnification Obligation. The City shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against any and all claims (including, but not limited to employee claims) arising from the City's use of the Premises or the conduct of its business thereon and from any activity, work or thing done, permitted or suffered by the City on the Premises and shall further protect, defend, indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against any and all claims arising from any breach or default in the performance of any obligation on the City's part to be performed under the terms of this Lease, or arising from any act or negligence of the City, or any of its officers, employees and agents, and from and against any and all costs, expenses and liabilities incurred in connection with such claim or any action or proceeding brought against Landlord by reason of any such claim, to the extent of the fault or neglect of the City.

 C. Joint or Concurrent Negligence. In the event of any concurrent negligence of the City or any of its officers, employees or agents on the one hand, and that of Landlord or any of its managers, members, employees, contractors or agents on the other hand, which concurrent negligence results in injury or damage to persons or property, then the obligation of the City and Landlord to indemnify the other party as set forth in this section shall be limited to the extent of the indemnifying party's negligence, and that of its respective managers, members, officers, employees, contractors, and agents including the indemnifying party's proportional share of costs and expenses incurred in connection with any claim, action or proceeding brought with respect to such injury or damage.

 D. Waiver of Immunity Under Industrial Insurance. Each party waives any immunity under industrial insurance, Title 51 RCW, it may have to any claim brought against it by the other party in connection with this Lease to the extent necessary to provide the other party with full and complete indemnification from claims made by the indemnifying party and its officers and employees, to the extent of the negligence of the indemnifying party and any of its officers and employees. BY THE INITIALS OF THE AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES OF LANDLORD AND THE CITY, LANDLORD AND THE CITY EACH ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE INDEMNIFICATION PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION 16 WERE SPECIFICALLY NEGOTIATED AND AGREED UPON BY THEM.

 For Landlord:  For the City:

17. INSURANCE

 A. Property Insurance. At all times during the term of this Lease, Landlord shall maintain in force property insurance in the amount of not less than 100% of the full replacement cost of the Building and other improvements, fixtures and equipment that are a part of the Landlord's Property (exclusive of the cost of Building excavations, foundations and footings) and without deduction for physical depreciation, together with such other insurance coverage as is customarily carried on comparable buildings in the City of Seattle or as Landlord may reasonably determine. The replacement cost of the Building shall be reasonably determined by Landlord. Such insurance shall cover loss or damage from all perils included within the policy classification now known as "all risk" or "special cause of loss" including, without limitation, fire and extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief, sprinkler leakage, flood, boiler and machinery insurance and special extended peril (all-risk). Such property  insurance shall be in builder's risk form during construction of any modifications, alterations or additions to the Building or the Premises and during any restoration accomplished in connection with damage or destruction to the Premises or in connection with any condemnation of the Premises.

 B. Waiver of Subrogation Right. The parties agree to mutually waive all right of recovery against the other for any loss or damage covered by their respective property insurance policies for all perils insured thereunder and in the event of any insured loss, neither party's insurance carrier shall have a subrogation claim against the other party; provided, however, that this waiver of subrogation shall not apply if the effect is to void such insurance coverage.

 C. Coverage for Personal Property. Landlord shall have no obligation to insure any of the City's personal property or trade fixtures or repair, replace or restore the same if it is damaged or destroyed from any cause whatsoever.

 D. Landlord's Commercial General Liability Insurance. Landlord shall secure and maintain in effect during the full term of this Lease and each extension thereof, commercial general liability insurance written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form (ISO form CG 0001 or equivalent) with policy limits for personal injury and for property damage in an amount not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence, and $1,000,000 general aggregate, and $100,000 Fire Damage Legal.

 E. Landlord's Insurance Policies. All insurance required under this Lease shall: (i) be rated A-:VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington broker or agent; (ii) be issued as a primary policy; and (iii) contain an endorsement requiring forty-five (45) days prior notice from the insurance company to Landlord as well as to the City, in care of Risk Management Administrator, Department of Finance, 800 Municipal Tower, 700 Fifth Avenue, Seattle WA 98104 and to Property Management, Planning and Development Division, Parks & Recreation Department, The City of Seattle, 800 Maynard Avenue South, Seattle, WA 98134 or to such other addresses as may be specified by the City, before any cancellation or change in the coverage, scope or amount of any policy is effective.

 F. Evidence of Insurance. The following documents must be delivered by the parties hereto to the other party at its address as specified in or pursuant to Subsection 17.E hereof, as evidence of the insurance coverage secured and maintained by Landlord:

 (1) On or before the Commencement Date, and thereafter, not later than five (5) days prior to the expiration or renewal date of each such policy:

 (a) A copy of the policy's declarations pages, showing the insuring company, policy effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements specifying all endorsements listed on the policy including any company-specific or manuscript endorsements;

 (b) A copy of the endorsement naming the other party and its officers, elected officials, employees, agents and volunteers as an Additional Insured (whether on ISO Form CG 2026 or an equivalent), showing the policy number, and the original signature and printed name of the representative of the insurance company authorized to sign such endorsement;

 (c) A copy of an endorsement stating that the coverages provided by such policy to any named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing at least forty-five (45) days prior notice to Landlord and the City at the addresses specified in or provided pursuant to Section 17(e) hereof; and

 (d) For the commercial general liability insurance to be secured and maintained pursuant to Subsection 17.D hereof, a copy of the "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests" clause in such policy or an endorsement thereto indicating essentially that except with respect to the limits of insurance and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, such insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom any claim is made or suit is brought.

 (2) Pending receipt of the documentation specified in Subsection 17.F(1) hereof, a copy of each such policy's binder.

 (3) Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of a written request therefor, a complete copy of the requested policy with all endorsements thereto.

 G. City's Commercial General Liability Insurance. The City shall secure and maintain in effect during the full term of this Lease and each extension thereof, commercial general liability insurance written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form (ISO form CG 0001 or equivalent) with policy limits for personal injury and for property damage in an amount not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence, and $1,000,000 general aggregate, and $100,000 Fire Damage Legal, which policy shall name Landlord as an Additional Insured as provided above.

 18. ALTERATIONS, ADDITIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS

 A. No Alteration, Addition or Improvement Without Landlord's Consent. The City shall not make or cause to be made any alteration, addition or improvement to the Premises without first obtaining the written consent of Landlord for such work, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. Any alteration, addition or improvement that is made solely for the convenience of the City or any of its employees or agents, or of the program to be conducted on the Premises shall be at the sole cost and expense of the City or the program being conducted on the Premises except for an alteration, addition or improvement occasioned by inherent damage or a latent defect in the Premises or of the structure in which the Premises are located, the cost of which alteration, addition or improvement shall be as agreed upon by the City and Landlord.

 B. Alterations, Additions & Improvements Made for Landlord's Convenience. Landlord shall pay the cost of all alterations, additions, and improvements initiated for Landlord's convenience, and save the City free and harmless from damage, loss or expense arising out of said alterations, additions and improvements performed by Landlord or on its behalf.

 19. EMINENT DOMAIN

 A. Total Taking. For purposes of this Lease, a "Total Taking" occurs whenever (i) the entire Premises are taken or appropriated under the power of eminent domain by an entity other than The City of Seattle, or are transferred in lieu of the exercise of such power; or (ii) less than the entire Premises are taken or appropriated under the power of eminent domain by an entity other than The City of Seattle, or are transferred in lieu of the exercise of such power, and such taking, appropriation, or transfer materially interferes with the City's use of the remainder of the Premises. Upon the date of the taking of physical possession of the Premises under any Total Taking, the term of this Lease shall expire as fully and completely as if such date were the date hereinabove set forth for the expiration of the term of this Lease. The City shall vacate the Premises on or by the date of the taking of physical possession of the Premises, without prejudice to any rights and remedies accrued to Landlord under this Lease prior to such termination. The amount of Base Monthly Rent, Additional Rent or City Share of Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes paid or payable by the City shall be adjusted as of the date of the taking of physical possession of the Premises.

 B. Partial Taking. For the purposes of this Lease, a "Partial Taking" occurs whenever there is a taking or appropriation of all or a portion of the Premises under the power of eminent domain by an entity other than The City of Seattle, or there is a transfer in lieu of the exercise of such power, and such taking, appropriation or transfer does not constitute a Total Taking. In the event of a Partial Taking, unless the City notifies Landlord within thirty (30) days of the date of such taking, appropriation or transfer that the City has reasonably determined that the portion of the Premises remaining is not adequate to enable the City to reasonably carry on the Permitted Use, this Lease shall continue in full force and effect as to the portion of the Premises remaining; provided, however, that Landlord shall proceed as promptly as is practicable to restore the Premises to an architectural condition that is as comparable as possible to the condition the Premises had immediately prior to such taking, appropriation or transfer. During the period between the date of the taking of physical possession by the condemning authority of a portion of the Premises and the date the remainder of the Premises are restored by Landlord as required by this subsection, Base Monthly Rent, Additional Rent and the City's Share of Operating Costs and Real Property Taxes shall be abated in the same ratio that the portion of the floor area of the Premises so taken bears to the entire floor area of Premises immediately prior to such taking, appropriation or transfer.

 C. Condemnation Award. The entire award for the taking under any right of condemnation or eminent domain or any transfer in lieu thereof shall belong to Landlord, and the City shall not be entitled to any part thereof or entitled to recover damages for the loss of its leasehold estate or other interest in the Premises. The City hereby assigns to Landlord all of the City's right, title and interest in and to any such award. The City shall have the right, however, to independently claim and recover from the condemning authority compensation for any loss to which the City may be put for the City's moving expenses or taking of the City's personal property (not including the City's leasehold interest), provided that such damages may be claimed only if they are awarded separately in the eminent domain proceedings and not out of or as part of the damages recoverable by Landlord. The City shall be entitled to any relocation assistance that an entity acquiring the Premises under eminent domain or in lieu of eminent domain is obligated to pay as a consequence of such acquisition.

 D. Repairs & Restoration After a Partial Taking Subject to City Approval. All repairs and other work to restore the Premises to the condition required by Subsection 19.B after a Partial Taking shall be made in accordance with plans and specifications approved by Landlord and the City, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 20. DEFAULT & TERMINATION

 A. Defaults Giving Cause for Termination. Notwithstanding any other provision herein, in the event that either party to this Lease defaults in the performance of any of the terms, provisions, covenants and agreements to be kept, observed and performed by it and such default is not corrected within thirty (30) days after the receipt of notice thereof from the other party, or within ten (10) days in the event the default consists of the failure by the City to make a payment to Landlord, then the non-breaching party may, at its option, immediately terminate this Lease, without notice or other proceedings, and in such event, Landlord may also re-enter and take possession of the Premises. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a default by either party, other than the failure to pay any money due and owing to Landlord, if such default cannot reasonably be cured within the thirty (30) day period, neither party shall be in default if the party in default commences the cure within the thirty (30) day period and thereafter diligently pursues such cure to completion.

 B. City Remedies. If the Landlord defaults in the performance of any of its obligations under this Lease and such default continues after the expiration of the cure period described in this Lease, the City may exercise one or more of the following remedies:

 (1) Perform the Landlord's obligations hereunder, and offset the reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the City in doing so against the sums to be paid to the Landlord hereunder; or

 (2) Sue the Landlord for damages suffered by the City as a consequence of the Landlord's default; or

 (3) Sue the Landlord for specific performance.

 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease, if Landlord's default renders all or a portion of the Premises untenantable for those uses contemplated by the City hereunder for more than thirty (30) days, the City shall be entitled to a fair and reasonable abatement of all sums due to the Landlord hereunder during the time that all or a portion of the Premises are so rendered unsuitable.

 21. FORCE MAJEURE

 Neither party shall be deemed in default hereof nor liable for damages arising from its failure to perform its duties or obligations hereunder if such is due to any cause beyond its reasonable control, including, but not limited to an act of Nature, act of civil or military authority, terrorism, fire, flood, windstorm, earthquake, strike or labor disturbance, civil commotion, delay in transportation, order of a superior governmental entity, or war.

 22. SURRENDER OF PREMISES

 Upon the expiration or termination of this Lease, including any extension thereof, whichever is earlier, the City shall quit and surrender said Premises and all keys thereto, without notice and in as good condition as received at the commencement of the term hereof except for ordinary wear and tear; damage or destruction by fire or other casualty; property damaged, removed, or destroyed by Landlord or its agents; latent defects or faulty construction of the structure of which the Premises comprise a part, not discoverable by inspection at the time of taking possession; and alterations, additions or improvements made to the Premises by the City. At the expiration or sooner termination of the lease term, the City shall return the Premises to Landlord in the same condition in which the Premises were received (or, if altered, then the Premises shall be returned in such altered condition), reasonable wear and tear excepted. Prior to such return, the City shall remove its moveable trade fixtures and appliances and equipment that have not been attached to the Premises, and shall repair any damage resulting from their removal.

 23. ASSIGNMENT BY LANDLORD

 If Landlord sells or otherwise transfers the Landlord's Property, or if Landlord assigns its interest in this Lease, other than an assignment solely for security purposes or a transfer in foreclosure or a deed in lieu of foreclosure, such purchaser, transferee, or assignee thereof shall be deemed to have assumed Landlord's obligations under this Lease arising after the date of such transfer, and this Lease shall remain in full force and effect. The City shall attorn to Landlord's successor.

 24. ASSIGNMENT & SUBLETTING BY THE CITY

 The City may assign its interest in this Lease or sublet the whole or any portion of the Premises to any person or entity with the prior consent of Landlord such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, but the City shall remain primarily liable for the performance of all obligations of the City under this Lease in the event of any such assignment or sublease with Landlord's prior consent; provided, (i) any unexercised option to renew or extend the term of this Lease shall be deemed terminated and (ii) no change of the allowed uses of the Premises shall occur. If, however, Landlord is requested to give its consent to any assignment of the City's interest in the lease and such consent is granted, then the assignee shall become primarily liable for the performance of all of the City's obligations under this Lease. The granting of consent to a given transfer shall not constitute a waiver of the consent requirement as to future transfers. In lieu of giving its consent, Landlord shall have the right to terminate the lease as to the portion of the Premises affected by the action for which Landlord's consent is requested and recover possession thereof from the City within thirty (30) days following written notice thereof to the City.

 25. SUBORDINATION & ATTORNMENT

 A. City to Attorn to Holder of Landlord's Mortgage. At the option of Landlord, this Lease shall be subject and subordinate to the lien of any mortgages or deeds of trust in any amount or amounts whatsoever that now or hereafter are placed on or against the Landlord's Property or improvements or either thereof, of which the Premises are a part, or on or against Landlord's interest or estate therein ("Landlord's Mortgage"). The City shall subordinate its interest in this Lease and its option to purchase the Landlord's Property to the holder of any Landlord's Mortgage, and attorn to the holder of any Landlord's Mortgage or any person or persons purchasing or otherwise acquiring the Building or the Premises at any sale or other proceeding under any Landlord's Mortgage if each such holder of Landlord's Mortgage executes with the City a Subordination, Non- Disturbance, Estoppel & Attornment Agreement in a form acceptable to the City. The City covenants and agrees to execute and deliver upon demand, without charge therefor, such further instruments evidencing such subordination of this Lease to the lien of any mortgages or deeds of trust as may be reasonably required by Landlord.

 B. Estoppel Certificate.

 (a) The City shall at any time upon not less than ten (10) days prior notice from Landlord execute, acknowledge and deliver to Landlord a statement in writing (i) certifying that this Lease is unmodified and in full force and effect (or, if modified, stating the nature of such modification and certifying that this Lease, as so modified, is in full force and effect) and the date to which the Base Monthly Rent and other charges are paid in advance, if any, and (ii) acknowledging that there are not, to the City's knowledge, any uncured defaults on the part of Landlord hereunder, or specifying such defaults if any are claimed. Any such statement may be relied upon by any prospective purchaser or encumbrancer of the Premises.

 (b) The City's failure to deliver such statement within such time shall be conclusive upon the City (i) that this Lease is in full force and effect, without modification except as may be represented by Landlord, (ii) that there are no uncured defaults in Landlord's performance, and (iii) that not more than one month's Base Monthly Rent has been paid in advance.

 26. NOTICES

 Any notice, demand or request required hereunder shall be in writing and delivered to the party's address set forth in Subsections 1.I or 17.E hereof by any of the following means: (a) personal service; (b) commercial or legal courier; or (c) registered or certified, first class mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested. Such addresses may be changed by notice to the other parties given in the same manner as above provided. Notices shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of actual receipt, as evidenced by the deliverer's affidavit, the recipient's acknowledgment of receipt, or the courier's receipt, except in the event of attempted delivery during the recipient's normal business hours at the proper address by an agent of a party or by commercial or legal courier or the U.S. Postal Service but refused acceptance, in which case notice shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of the day of attempted delivery, as evidenced by the messenger's affidavit of inability to deliver stating the time, date, place and manner in which such delivery was attempted and the manner in which such delivery was refused, or on the day immediately following deposit with such courier or, if sent pursuant to subsection (c), forty-eight (48) hours following deposit in the U.S. mail.

 27. NO RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN LANDLORD & CITY CREATED BY LEASE

 In no event shall the City be construed or held to have become in any way or for any purpose a partner, associate, or joint venturer of Landlord or any party associated with Landlord in the conduct of Landlord's business or otherwise. This Lease does not constitute Landlord as the agent or legal representative of the City for any purpose whatsoever.

 28. BROKERAGE FEES

 The City represents and warrants to Landlord that the City has not dealt with, and has not agreed to pay any commission or other fee or compensation to, any broker, agent or finder in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Lease of Landlord's Property. Landlord represents and warrants to the City that Landlord has not dealt with, and shall not pay a real estate commission to any party under a separate commission agreement. Landlord shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from all damages, judgments, liabilities, claims and expenses arising out of or in connection with any claim by any broker, agent, finder, or other person with whom Landlord has dealt with for any commission or fee alleged to be due in connection with the procurement for the City of the Premises or the negotiation of this Lease.

 29. ATTORNEYS' FEES

 In the event of any dispute (whether or not litigation is involved) regarding any party's rights or obligations under this Lease, each party shall be responsible for its own attorneys' fees and court costs.

 30. AMENDMENTS

 The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to renegotiate any and all of the provisions hereof from time to time as may be necessary and to amend this Lease accordingly; Provided, however, that no alteration or modification of the terms or conditions hereof shall be valid and binding unless made in writing and signed by the authorized representatives of the parties hereto.

 31. NO WAIVER OF DEFAULT; NO LIEN

 No covenant, term or condition or the breach thereof shall be deemed waived, except by written consent or acknowledgment of the party against whom the waiver is claimed. No waiver of the breach of any covenant, term or condition shall be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other covenant, term or condition. Acceptance by Landlord of any performance by the City after the time the same shall have become due shall not constitute a waiver by Landlord of the breach or default of any covenant, term or condition unless otherwise expressly agreed to by Landlord in writing. The City does not waive full compliance with the terms and conditions of this Lease by the payment of Base Monthly Rent, Additional Rent, or the City's Share of Operating Costs. Landlord acknowledges that the property of the City cannot be subjected to any lien whatsoever.

 32. APPLICABLE LAW; VENUE

 This Lease shall be construed under all of the applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the United States of America, the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle. In the case of a dispute between the parties, jurisdiction and venue with respect to such dispute shall be vested in the Superior Court of King County, Washington.

 33. BINDING EFFECT; JOINT & SEVERAL LIABILITY OF LANDLORD

 This Lease shall be binding upon the heirs, successors, assigns, and all other parties legally empowered with signatory rights of any or all of the parties hereto and upon any person or persons coming into ownership or possession of any interest in the Premises by operation of law or otherwise. All persons and entities identified as Landlord herein shall be jointly and severally liable for Landlord's liabilities, covenants and agreements under this Lease.

 34. SURVIVAL OF PROVISIONS

 The representations and warranties made herein by either party to the other, and the obligations of each party to indemnify and defend the other under particular situations, and to provide certain information and to pay accrued sums owed to the other, all as specified in this Lease, shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.

 35. HEADINGS

 The section or subsection headings used in this Lease are used for purposes of convenience and do not alter in any manner the content of the sections or subsections.

 36. CONTEXT

 Whenever appropriate from the context, the use of any gender shall include any other or all genders, and the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.

 37. AUTHORITY AND LIABILITY OF EACH PARTY

 Each party represents and warrants to the other that this Lease has been duly authorized, executed and delivered such party, and that the person executing the same on behalf of such party has the requisite power and authority to enter into this Lease and that such party has the requisite authority to perform its obligations hereunder. Each party covenants to provide the other with evidence of the authority of the person executing this Lease on behalf of such party upon the other party's request.

 38. INVALIDITY OF PROVISIONS

 Should any term, provision, condition or other portion of this Lease be held to be inoperative, invalid or void, the same shall not affect any other term, provision, condition or other portion of this Lease; and the remainder of this Lease shall be effective as if such term, provision, condition or portion had not been contained herein.

 39. TIME OF ESSENCE; TIME CALCULATION METHOD

 Time is of the essence with respect to this Lease. Except as otherwise specifically provided, any reference in this Lease to the word "day" means a "calendar day;" Provided, that if the final day for any action required hereunder is a Saturday, Sunday or City holiday, such action shall not be required until the next succeeding day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or City holiday. Any reference in this Lease to the word "month" means "calendar month."

 40. ENTIRE AGREEMENT; APPLICABLE LAW

 This Lease and the Exhibits attached hereto, and by this reference incorporated herein, set forth the entire agreement of Landlord and the City concerning the Premises and Building, and there are no other agreements or understanding, oral or written, between Landlord and the City concerning the Premises, Building, or Landlord's Property. Obligations set forth in any other agreement including that lease agreement between the parties executed on June 23, 1998, and more specifically any obligations setting forth any obligations to pay further amortized payments for the tenant improvements described therein shall be deemed satisfied and no longer obligations of the City.

 41. NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT

 The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 42. EFFECTUATION OF AGREEMENT

 In order to be effective, this Lease must be (1) signed by an authorized representative of Landlord and returned to the City at the addresses set forth in 1.I and 17E, accompanied by the required evidence of insurance, and (2) signed by the City's Superintendent of Parks & Recreation pursuant to ordinance authority.

 43. LATE CHARGE; INTEREST

 Time is of the essence of this Lease. If City fails to pay any amount due hereunder within ten (10) days of the due date, a late charge equal to five percent (5%) of the unpaid amount shall be assessed and be immediately due and payable. Such late charge shall be re-imposed on the first day of each subsequent month that such payment remains outstanding. In addition, interest shall accrue from the date due until paid at the rate of eighteen percent (18%) per year, or the maximum legal rate of interest, whichever is less.

 44. LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES

 City shall keep the Premises free and clear of all liens and encumbrances arising out of or relating to work, labor, services, equipment or materials supplied or claimed to have been supplied to the Premises at the request of City, or anyone holding all or any portion of the Premises through City. If any lien is filed against the Premises City shall give Landlord immediate notice of the filing and shall cause the lien to be discharged within 10 days after Landlord's demand. If City fails to discharge such lien within such period, in addition to any other right or remedy Landlord may have, after five days prior written notice to City, Landlord may, but shall not be obligated to, discharge the lien by paying to the claimant the amount claimed to be due or by procuring the discharge in any other manner that is now or may in the future be permitted by law. Any amount paid by Landlord, together with all costs, fees and expenses in connection therewith (including Landlord's reasonable Attorneys' Fees, together with interest thereon at the Agreed Rate, shall be repaid by Tenant to Landlord on demand by Landlord. City shall indemnify and defend Landlord against all losses, costs, damages, expenses (including reasonable Attorneys' Fees), liabilities, penalties, claims, demands and obligations, resulting from such lien.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have affixed their signature below:

 LESSEE, THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By_________________________________

 Kenneth R. Bounds, Superintendent

 Parks & Recreation Department

 Authorizing Ordinance _______________

 LANDLORD, MLMA LLC

 By____________________________________

 (Signature)

 _______________________________________

 (Print or Type Name)

 _______________________________________

 (Print or Type Title)

 By____________________________________

 (Signature)

 _______________________________________

 (Print or Type Name)

 _______________________________________

 (Print or Type Title)

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgment for Landlord)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ______ day of __________________, , before me personally appeared ____________________________________, to me known to be the General Partner, one of the entities that executed the foregoing Lease as Landlord, who acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said entity for the uses and purposes therein set forth, and on oath state that s/he has been authorized to execute said instrument on behalf of said entity.

 GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year last above written.

 (Signature) (Print or type name of notary public)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of ,

 residing at

 My commission expires: ______________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON)

 ) ss. (Acknowledgment for Landlord)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ______ day of __________________, , before me personally appeared ____________________________________, to me known to be the General Partner, as Landlord, who acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said entity for the uses and purposes therein set forth, and on oath state that s/he has been authorized to execute said instrument on behalf of said entity.

 GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year last above written.

(Signature) (Print or type name of notary public)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of ,

 residing at

 My commission expires: ______________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON)

 ) ss. (Acknowledgment for Tenant)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this  day of , , before me, personally appeared _______________________, to me known to be the Superintendent of Parks & Recreation of The City of Seattle, who executed the foregoing Lease, and acknowledged the same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that __he has been authorized to execute said Agreement.

 GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year last above written.

(Signature) (Print or type name of notary public)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at

My commission expires .

 ??

 1

 Attachment 1 of DPR RDA Lease Ord

```
