

********

**Council Bill Number: 115187**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121747**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Civil Service systems of the City, restoring functions previously transferred from the Public Safety Civil Service Commission and amending Chapters 4.04 and 4.08 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 7, 2005
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 16, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 16, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 22, 2005
   
**Committee:** Finance & Budget
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-EMPLOYEES, GOVERNMENTAL-REORGANIZATION, CIVIL-SERVICE, PERSONNEL-ADMINISTRATION, PUBLIC-SAFETY-CIVIL-SERVICE-COMMISSION, POLICE-DEPARTMENT, FIRE-DEPARTMENT, PERSONNEL-DEPARTMENT

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 120658

**Fiscal Note:**115187

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Civil Service systems of the City, restoring functions previously transferred from the Public Safety Civil Service Commission and amending Chapters 4.04 and 4.08 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 WHEREAS, on November 30, 2001, the City enacted Ordinance 120658 to reorganize the Public Safety Civil Service System. On the effective date of the Ordinance, January 1, 2002, Seattle's Personnel Director assumed authority for administering and overseeing civil service examination functions for the Seattle Police and Fire Departments, which had formerly been administered by the Public Safety Civil Service Commission. This included the rule-making authority for administration of the system; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Police Officers Guild filed a complaint against the City of Seattle and other defendants now pending in the King County Superior Court, Cause No. 02-2-03156-1 SEA. In that complaint the Guild alleged that the City violated RCW Chapter 41.12 when it enacted Ordinance 120658, because the Personnel Director was not sufficiently independent and the City's revised system no longer substantially accomplished the purposes of RCW Chapter 41.12; and

 WHEREAS, on May 3, 2004, the Court of Appeals reversed a King County Superior Court's decision that had upheld Ordinance 120658 and remanded the case to superior court for further proceedings; and

 WHEREAS, the Court of Appeals held that RCW Chapter 41.12 required that an independent body like the Commission must perform the substantive administration of the civil service system. The court also held that the Personnel Director was not independent. The court ruled that the rule-making function with regard to examinations was substantive and that the transfer of that function to the Personnel Director was contrary to State law. The court then stated that ministerial functions could be transferred. It remanded the case to the trial court to determine which functions transferred by the ordinance were ministerial and which were substantive; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Police Officers Guild and the International Association of Firefighters, Local 27, both filed unfair labor practice complaints with the Washington State Public Employment Relations Commission charging that the City should have bargained the changes imposed by Ordinance 120658; and

 WHEREAS, the Executive and the affected unions have reached an agreement, conditioned on passage of this ordinance, to dismiss all of the above-referenced litigation and as to what functions should be returned to the Public Safety Civil Service Commission; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council and the Executive have determined that this ordinance will restore the independence of the Public Safety Civil Service system and substantially accomplish the purposes of RCW Chapter 41.12, while preserving the cost savings intended by Ordinance 120658; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.04.030 is hereby amended to delete the following definition and the remaining definitions shall be renumbered accordingly:

 4.04.030 Definitions.

 Unless another meaning is clearly indicated from the context, as used in this title:

 * * *

 23. ~~"Provisional employee" for Public Safety Civil Service employees means an employee who was appointed to a position for which no register existed.~~

 * * *

 Section 2. Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.04.040(C) is hereby amended as follows:

 4.04.040 Administration.

 C. With respect to ~~employees of~~ the Public Safety Civil Service system enumerated in SMC 4.08.060, the duties of the Director shall be administrative and ministerial, including any support provided by the Director's staff. The duties of the Director include:

 1. Provide staff support to the Public Safety Civil Service Commission, including staff to assist the Commission in the preparation and administration of entry-level and promotional examinations for the Seattle Police and Fire Departments. The Director's staff shall also assist the Commission to develop the appropriate registers based on test scores and service credits.

a. The level of staff support provided shall not be increased above that assigned to Public Safety Civil Service System duties in 2004, including contracts for consulting services, unless there is a corresponding increase in the Personnel Department's budget.

b. Any contract for consulting services to the Public Safety Civil Service System may be funded from that portion of the Personnel Department's budget dedicated to support the Public Safety Civil Service Commission. Any such contract paid for from Personnel Department funds must be jointly approved by the Personnel Director and the Public Safety Civil Service Commission.

2. Provide staff support to the Public Safety Civil Service Commission by maintaining registers and posting registers appropriately for candidate and public review.

3. While the Director's staff shall assist the Commission, the Commission or its designee shall certify the candidates for appointment to a particular position. The Public Safety Civil Service Commission shall retain all rule-making powers.

~~Classify, for purposes of examination, all positions covered by said system. No appointments, promotions or transfers shall be made to or from positions covered by said system except as provided in SMC Chapters 4.04.040 C and 4.08.~~

~~2. Prepare and administer examinations, which shall be graded and open to all who meet appropriate job-related qualifications; provided that the Director may, by rule, designate other methods of examination based on merit when in the Director's judgment graded examination is not practicable. Such examinations may include tests of physical fitness and/or manual skill. The~~~~Director shall superintend and keep a record of all examinations. The Director may designate a suitable number of persons to be examiners to conduct such examinations. The Director shall charge a nonrefundable application fee of Twenty-five Dollars ($25) for entry-level firefighter and police officer applicants. The Director shall waive this fee for indigent applicants upon submission by the applicant of a declaration of indigency. Examinations for all classes shall be timely prepared and administered by the Director so as to provide at all times current registers for all classifications. Eligible registers shall remain in effect for a time determined by the Director: provided, that no eligible register shall remain in effect for more than two (2) years.~~

~~3. Provide notice of the time and place and general scope of every examination to be held by publication in the City official newspaper not less than ten (10) days preceding such examination, and for promotional exams by posting in the Public Safety Civil Service Commission office and in Police and Fire Department offices for not less than ninety (90) days, and by other notice deemed reasonable or necessary by the Director.~~~~4. Keep a record of all examinations held under his/her direction.~~~~5. Prepare a register for each class of positions in this system from the returns or reports of the examiners of the persons whose standing upon examination for such class is not less than the minimum established by the Director. Persons, when graded, shall take rank upon the register as candidates in the order of their relative excellence as determined by competitive examination. Veteran's preference in examination and appointment shall be granted as required by federal and state law including RCW 41.08.040 and 41.12.040: provided a person shall be entitled to use such preference only once to successfully attain an appointment or promotion to a position.~~~~6. When a vacant entry level position is to be filled, certify to the appointing authority the names of candidates in the top twenty-five (25) percent of the eligible register, or the top five (5) candidates, whichever number is larger, subject to any current affirmative action requirements. Where more than one (1) position in a class is to be filled, certify one (1) additional name of the~~~~person standing next highest on the register for each additional position. When a vacant position is to be filled through promotion, certify to the appointing authority the names of the top five (5) candidates from the appropriate promotional register. When more than one (1) vacancy is to be filled from a promotional register, certify one (1) additional name of the person standing next highest on the register for each additional position. The appointing authority shall fill such positions by appointment only from the persons certified by the Director. If there are no registers for a class, authorize temporary, provisional appointment to the vacant position. A provisional appointment shall not continue for a period longer than four (4) months, and no person shall receive more than one (1) provisional appointment or serve more than four (4) months as provisional appointee in any twelve (12) month period.~~

~~7. Adopt suitable rules for examination, classification, eligibility, preparation of registers, certification and appointments. Such rules may be amended, modified or rescinded from time to time, and all rules and amendments thereof shall be printed for free public distribution.~~~~8. Comply with the applicable portions of the Rules of Practice and Procedure of the Public Safety Civil Service Commission in effect on January 1, 2002, until such time as the Personnel Director adopts rules to carry out the new duties assigned pursuant to SMC Section 4.08.020.~~~~9. Comply with the procedures regarding the promotions of police officers and sergeants set forth in the effective collective bargaining agreement between the City and the exclusive bargaining agent of such employees, as approved by ordinance, to the extent such procedures are inconsistent with the terms of this ordinance as codified in this chapter, the rules adopted by the Director, or the rules of the Public Safety Civil Service Commission.~~

 Section 3. Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.08.020 is hereby amended as follows:

 4.08.020 Purpose.

 The general purpose of this chapter is to establish a civil service~~commission~~system~~to hear the appeals of~~ for employees in the Police and Fire Departments of the City, ~~regarding~~governing appointments, promotions, promotional testing, layoffs, recruitment, retention, classifications, removals and discipline, pursuant to Charter Article XVI,~~which, together with applicable provisions of the Personnel System established by SMC Chapter 4.04 provide for a civil service system in the Police and Fire Departments~~ in substantial compliance with RCW Chapters 41.08, 41.12, 41.56. All appointments and promotions to Police and Fire Department positions, retention therein and removal therefrom shall be based on merit and according to the policies and procedures hereinafter specified or according to the procedures regarding the promotions of police officers and sergeants set forth in the collective bargaining agreement between the City and the exclusive bargaining agent of such employees, as approved by ordinance, to the extent such procedures are inconsistent with those set forth herein.

 Section 4. Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.08.070 is hereby amended as follows:

 4.08.070 Power and duties of Commission

 The Commission shall:

 A. Make suitable rules to carry out the purposes of this chapter and for examination, appointments, promotions, transfers, demotions, reinstatements, suspensions, layoffs, discharges, and any other matters connected with the purposes of this chapter~~with the exception of matters related to examination, classification, eligibility, preparation of registers, certification and appointments~~. Such rules may be amended, modified or rescinded from time to time and all rules and amendments thereof shall be printed for free public distribution.~~The Commission shall initially be governed by the rules in the "Civil Service Laws and Rules" adopted February 17, 1965, as amended and in existence as of July 1, 1978. The Commission may thereafter supplement, amend, supersede or repeal such rules.~~

 B. Classify for purposes of examination, all positions covered by this system. No appointments or promotions shall be made to or from positions covered by this system except as provided in this chapter or as set forth in the effective collective bargaining agreement between the City and the exclusive bargaining agent of such employees, as approved by ordinance, to the extent such procedures are inconsistent with those set forth herein.

C.With the support of the Personnel Director pursuant to SMC 4.04.040, prepare and administer examinations, which shall be graded and open to all who meet appropriate job-related qualifications; provided that the Commission may, by rule, designate other methods of examination based on merit when in the Commission's judgment graded examination is not practicable. Such examinations may include tests of physical fitness and/or manual skill. The Commission may designate a suitable number of persons to be examiners to conduct such examinations. A Commissioner may act as examiner. The Commission shall charge a nonrefundable application fee of Twenty-five Dollars ($25) for entry-level firefighter and police officer applicants. The Commission shall waive this fee for indigent applicants upon submission by the applicant of a declaration of indigency.

D.With the support of the Personnel Director, examinations for all classes shall be timely prepared and administered by the Commission so as to provide at all times current registers for all classifications. Eligible registers shall remain in effect for a time determined by the Commission; provided, that no eligible register shall remain in effect for more than two (2) years.

E.With the support of the Personnel Director, provide notice of the time, place and general scope of every examination not less than ten (10) days preceding such examination, and for promotional exams by posting in the Commission office and in Police and Fire Department offices for not less than ninety (90) days, and by other notice deemed reasonable or necessary by the Commission.

F.With the support of the Personnel Director, prepare a register for each class of positions in this system from the returns or reports of the examiners of the persons whose standing upon examination for such class is not less than the minimum established by the Commission. Persons, when graded, shall take rank upon the register as candidates in the order of their relative excellence as determined by competitive examination. Veteran's preference in examination and appointment shall be granted as required by federal and state law including RCW 41.08.040 and 41.12.040; provided, a person shall be entitled to use such preference only once to successfully attain an appointment or promotion to a position.

G.When an entry level position is to be filled, certify to the appointing authority the names of candidates in the top twenty-five (25) percent of the eligible register or the top six (6) candidates, whichever number is larger. When a vacant position other than entry level is to be filled, certify to the appointing authority to names of the top five (5) candidates. In either circumstance, where more than one (1) position in a class is to be filled, certify one (1) additional name of the person standing next highest on the register for each additional position. The appointing authority shall fill such positions by appointment only from the persons certified by the Commission.

H.If there are no registers for a class, authorize temporary, provisional appointment to the vacant position. A provisional appointment shall not continue for a period longer than four (4) months, and no person shall receive more than one (1) provisional appointment or serve more than four (4) months as provisional appointee in any twelve (12) month period.

I. Make investigations concerning the enforcement and effect of this chapter and the rules prescribed hereunder; and inspect all offices, places, positions and employments affected by this chapter and ascertain whether this chapter and all such rules are being obeyed. Such investigations may be made by the Commission, or by any Commissioner or agent designated by the Commission for that purpose. Like investigation may be made on written petition of a person duly verified stating that irregularities or abuses exist, setting forth in concise language the necessity and grounds for such investigation. In the course of such investigation, the Commission shall have the power to administer oaths, subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the production of books and papers relevant to such investigation. Alternatively, investigation or hearing may be conducted by a delegated agent of the Commission, whose investigation may be aided by subpoenas issued by the Commission.

~~C.~~J. To hear and determine appeals or complaints respecting the administration of this chapter~~and Section 4.04.040(C) of the Seattle Municipal Code~~.

~~D.~~K.With the support of the Personnel Director,~~M~~maintain a roster of employees of this system, and other records as may be necessary for proper administration of this chapter, and provide all necessary records to the Personnel Director for inclusion in the City's personnel management information records system.

~~E.~~L. Recommend from time to time such City legislation as the Commission may deem advisable for the betterment of this system and/or the administration thereof.

~~F.~~M. Comply with the procedures regarding the promotions of police officers and sergeants set forth in the effective collective bargaining agreement between the City and the exclusive bargaining agent of such employees, as approved by ordinance, to the extent such procedures are inconsistent with those set forth herein.

 Section 5. Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.08.080 is hereby amended as follows:

 4.08.090 Qualifications of applicants.

 An applicant for a position in the classified Public Safety Civil Service must meet the minimum qualifications prescribed by the ~~Personnel Director~~Commission, which standards shall be documented by the ~~Personnel Director~~Commission to be related to the physical and mental demands required to perform the duties assigned to the position to which the applicant seeks appointment.

 Section 6. Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.08.110 is hereby amended as follows:

 4.08.110 Filling of vacancies-Probationary period.

 A. Whenever a position covered by this system becomes vacant, the appointing authority, if it desires to fill the vacancy, shall make requisition upon the ~~Personnel Director~~Commission for the names and addresses of persons eligible for and willing to accept the appointment. The appointing authority shall fill such vacancies by appointment from the register of persons certified by the ~~Personnel Director~~Commission thereafter. To facilitate the selection of appointees from the persons so certified, the appointing authority may require such persons to come before him/her and shall be entitled to inspect such persons' application and examination papers, and may fill such positions by appointment from the persons so certified without regard to their order of certification.

 B. No appointment, employment or promotion in this system shall be deemed complete until after the expiration of a period of one year's probationary service. Before the expiration of the period of probation, the appointing authority may discharge or, in the case of a promotion, demote an appointee upon filing in writing the reasons therefore with the Director of Personnel and the Commission. If an appointee is not then discharged or demoted, his/her appointment shall be deemed complete.

 Section 7. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Jeffery Slayton/ks

 PSCSordinance.doc

 January 20, 2005

 version #1a

```
