

********

**Council Bill Number: 115153**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121726**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City's stormwater drainage facilities located at 3225 Perkins Lane West, Seattle, and at 3231 Perkins Lane West, Seattle (Section 15, Township 23 North, Range 3 East, W.M., King County, Washington); declaring these facilities to be surplus to the City's needs and not required for continued utility service and authorizing their conveyance to the owners of these properties.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** January 31, 2005
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 9, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 9, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 18, 2005
   
**Committee:** Utilities & Technology
   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, MAGNOLIA

**Fiscal Note:**115153

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City's stormwater drainage facilities located at 3225 Perkins Lane West, Seattle, and at 3231 Perkins Lane West, Seattle (Section 15, Township 23 North, Range 3 East, W.M., King County, Washington); declaring these facilities to be surplus to the City's needs and not required for continued utility service and authorizing their conveyance to the owners of these properties.

 WHEREAS, in approximately 1937, certain stormwater drainage pipelines (the "Facilities") were constructed on two parcels of real property, located at 3225 Perkins Lane West, Seattle, and 3231 Perkins Lane West, Seattle (the "Properties"), which are legally described in Exhibit A to Attachment A and Exhibit A to Attachment B hereto respectively; and

 WHEREAS, the owners of the Properties (the "Buyers") desire to acquire all of the City's rights, title, and interest in, the Facilities; and

 WHEREAS, the City no longer has a need for the Facilities for drainage or for any other City purpose; and

 WHEREAS, the City finds that it is in the best interest of City and its drainage ratepayers to convey the Facilities to the Buyers in consideration of the transfer of all future responsibility for the Facilities from the City to the Buyers and the Buyers' release and indemnification of the City; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Pursuant to RCW 35.94.040 and after public hearing, the Facilities on the Properties legally described in Exhibit A ("Legal Description of Property") to Attachment A and Exhibit A ("Legal Description of Property") to Attachment B are hereby found and declared to be no longer required for providing public utility service, and to be surplus to the City's needs. In consideration of the transfer of all future responsibility for the Facilities from the City to the Buyers and the Buyers' release and indemnification of the City, the conveyance of the Facilities to the Buyers is hereby authorized.

 Section 2. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities or his designee is hereby authorized to execute conveyance agreements, execute quit claim deeds substantially in the forms attached hereto as Exhibit B ("Form of Quit Claim Deed") to Attachment A and Exhibit B ("Form of Quit Claim Deed") to Attachment B, and to take all other actions necessary to effectuate the conveyance of the Facilities to the Buyers in accordance with terms and conditions of such agreements.

 Section 3. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 List of Attachments:

 Attachment A: AGREEMENT FOR CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY INTERESTS

 (3225 Perkins Lane West)

 Exhibit A: Legal Description of Property

 Exhibit B: Form of Quit Claim Deed

 Attachment B: AGREEMENT FOR CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY INTERESTS

 (3231 Perkins Lane West)

 Exhibit A: Legal Description of Property

 Exhibit B: Form of Quit Claim Deed

 S-Dewayne Ticeson/FE Moody

 SPU Perkins Drainage Facilities ORD

 December 14, 2004

 version # 2a

 1

 AGREEMENT FOR CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY INTERESTS

 (3225 Perkins Lane West)

 This Agreement for Conveyance of Property Interests (the "Agreement") is made as of ______________, 2004, by and between The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and through Seattle Public Utilities ("Seller" or "City"), and Jacqueline E. Pickrell, an unmarried individual ("Buyer").

 Whereas, in approximately 1937, there were constructed certain stormwater drainage pipelines in the real property legally described in Exhibit A hereto (the "Property") and with the address of 3225 Perkins Lane West, Seattle (the "Drain Lines") and also in the real property with the address of 3233 Perkins Lane West, Seattle;

 Whereas, such stormwater drainage pipelines currently exist and are shown approximately on the plans for City of Seattle Building Permit Application No. 2302702 (the "Plans"); and

 Whereas, Buyer desires to acquire all of City's right, title and interest in and with respect to the Drain Lines,

 Whereas, the City no longer has need for the Drain Lines for drainage system or other City purposes and desires to convey the Drain Lines to Buyer;

 Now, therefore, for and in consideration of the mutual promises and obligations contained herein, the parties agree as follows:

 Section 1. Conveyance

 Subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the City agrees to convey and transfer to Buyer and Buyer agrees to accept from the City, all of the City's right, title and interest in and with respect to the Drain Lines, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Such conveyance shall be by quit claim deed substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto (the "Deed").

 Section 2. Consideration

 The parties agree that the transfer of responsibility for the Drain Lines from Seller to Buyer and Buyer's release and indemnification of the City, all as set forth in the Deed, constitute good and adequate consideration for the conveyance described in Section 1.

 Section 3. Conditions Precedent to Seller's Obligations

 The obligations of Seller hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions prior to or on the date of Closing pursuant to section 4, which conditions are for the benefit of Seller and may be waived only in writing by Seller, as follows:

 3.1 On or before March 1, 2005, an ordinance that authorizes the conveyance described in section 1 shall have been passed by the Seattle City Council and have become effective.

 3.2 On the date of, and immediately prior to Closing, Buyer shall be the owner in fee of the Property.

 3.3 On or before the date of Closing, the conveyance described in the Agreement for Conveyance of Real Property Interests (3233 Perkins Lane West), dated as of ________ 2004 between the City and Susan E. Foster and Maurice J. Pirio, has been completed.

 Unless all conditions to the Seller's obligations are satisfied on or before the date of Closing, the Seller shall have the right, at its sole option exercisable at any time thereafter by written notice to Buyer, to terminate this Agreement, without any liability to Buyer and in such case, Buyer shall have no liability to Seller.

 Section 4. Closing

 4.1 The conveyance contemplated hereunder shall be closed within 30 days after the effective date of the ordinance described in section 3.1. "Closing" means the recording of the Deed.

 4.2 On or before Closing, Buyer shall execute and deliver to Seller the Deed and customary closing documents. On or before Closing, Seller shall execute the Deed and customary closing documents. Seller shall cause the Deed to be recorded.

 Section 5. Condition of Drain Lines

 5.1 The terms and provisions of this section 5 shall survive Closing and shall not merge with the Deed.

 5.2 Buyer accepts the conveyance of the Drain Lines "AS IS, WHERE IS." Buyer acknowledges that she is not relying on any representation, warranty or statement, express or implied, made by or on behalf of Seller or any of its officers, employees or agents as to any matter related to the actual location or condition of the Drain Lines, nor on any duty of Seller or such persons to disclose any such matter. Buyer assumes all risks with respect to the Drain Lines.

 5.3 Seller makes no representations or warranties, express or implied, with respect to, and shall have no liability for: (a) the condition of the Property, the Drain Lines or any other improvements thereon, or the suitability, habitability, merchantability, or fitness of the Property or the Drain Lines for Buyer's intended use or for any use whatsoever; (b) compliance with any applicable building, zoning or fire laws or regulations or with any required permits of any governmental agency; (c) the historical use of the Drain Lines or (d) the presence of any hazardous substances on or under the Property, in the Drain Lines, or in any other improvements on the Property.

 5.4 Seller shall have no obligations whatsoever with respect to the Drain Lines from and after the Closing, and Buyer shall be solely responsible therefor.

 Section 6. Default

 If the conditions to Seller's obligations are satisfied or waived, Buyer tenders all documents required for Closing, and Seller fails, without legal excuse, to complete Closing, Buyer may seek specific performance of this Agreement. If Seller tenders all documents required for Closing and Buyer fails, without legal excuse, to complete Closing, Seller may seek specific performance of this Agreement. The parties agree that legal remedies are inadequate for default under this Agreement.

 Section 7. Notices

 All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, faxed, or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and shall be deemed received (a) upon receipt if hand delivered or faxed, or (b) on the earlier of actual receipt during normal working hours on a Business Day, or on the first Business Day that is at least two (2) days after the date when the notice is deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, addressed to Seller or Buyer at the addresses set forth below, or such other addresses as either party shall have provided to the other by written notice:

 Buyer: Jacqueline E. Pickrell

 3225 Perkins Lane West

 Seattle, WA 98199

 Seller: City of Seattle SPU/Real Property - DWU

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 4900

 P.O. Box 34018

 Seattle, WA 98124-4018

 Notice of change of address shall be given by written notice in the manner detailed above.

 Section 8. Assignment

Neither party may assign its rights under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party, which consent may be withheld in that party's sole discretion.

 Article 9. General Provisions

 This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of Buyer and Seller with respect to the conveyance of the Drain Lines, and it supersedes all prior agreements between them, written or oral. This Agreement may be modified only in writing, signed by Buyer and Seller. Any waivers under this Agreement must be in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default will not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default. This Agreement is for the benefit of, and binding upon, Buyer and Seller and their successors and assigns, subject to the limit on assignment in section 8. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision. This Agreement shall not be binding upon the parties until the Consent Agreement is fully executed. Time is of the essence in all provisions of this Agreement. By this reference, all exhibits to this Agreement are incorporated herein.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: _______________________________

 Chuck Clarke, Director

 Seattle Public Utilities

 By: ________________________________

 Jacqueline E. Pickrell

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

 LOT 6 AND THE NORTH 25 FEET OF LOT 7, DIVISION "D" OF CARLETON BEACH TRACTS ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE, ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF, RECORDED IN VOLUME 25 OF PLATS, PAGE 18, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON; EXCEPT THE EAST 164 FEET OF SAID LOT 6, AND

 EXCEPT THE EAST 164 FEET OF THE NORTH 13 FEET OF SAID LOT 7;

 TOGETHER WITH AN EASEMENT FOR DRIVEWAY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

 BEGINNING AT A POINT 164 FEET WEST AND 63 FEET SOUTH OF THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF SAID LOT 6 AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 25 FEET; THENCE EAST 25 FEET PARALLEL TO THE SOUTH LINE OF SAID LOT 6; THENCE NORTHWESTERLY IN A DIRECT LINE TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Exhibit A of Attachment A

 FORM OF QUIT CLAIM DEED

 Recording Requested By And

 When Recorded Mail To:

 Jacqueline E. Pickrell

 3225 Perkins Lane West

 Seattle, WA 98199

 QUIT CLAIM DEED

 Reference #s of Documents Released or Assigned: none

 Grantor(s): ........................................ The City of Seattle

 Grantee(s): ....................................... Jacqueline E. Pickrell

 Legal Description (abbreviated): ............ portion of Lot 6, Block D, Carleton Beach TRS

 Assessor's Tax Parcel ID#: portion of 1364300294

 R/W #2004-16

 Seattle Public Utilities

 In consideration of Grantee's covenants and obligations hereunder and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, ("Grantor") conveys and quit claims to Jacqueline E. Pickrell, an unmarried individual, ("Grantee") all of Grantor's right, title and interest in and with respect to any stormwater drainage pipelines (the "Drain Lines") located in the real property legally described as follows:

 LOT 6 AND THE NORTH 25 FEET OF LOT 7, DIVISION "D" OF CARLETON BEACH TRACTS ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE, ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF, RECORDED IN VOLUME 25 OF PLATS, PAGE 18, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON; EXCEPT THE EAST 164 FEET OF SAID LOT 6, AND

 EXCEPT THE EAST 164 FEET OF THE NORTH 13 FEET OF SAID LOT 7;

 TOGETHER WITH AN EASEMENT FOR DRIVEWAY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

 BEGINNING AT A POINT 164 FEET WEST AND 63 FEET SOUTH OF THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF SAID LOT 6 AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 25 FEET; THENCE EAST 25 FEET PARALLEL TO THE SOUTH LINE OF SAID LOT 6; THENCE NORTHWESTERLY IN A DIRECT LINE TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (the "Property"), together with all after acquired title of the Grantor therein.

 Exhibit B of Attachment A

 Grantor reserves unto itself all right, title, and interest in that certain easement recorded under King County Recording No. 8811030284.

 Grantee covenants as follows:

 1. From and after the date hereof, Grantee, its heirs, successors and assigns in ownership and all future owners of the Property, shall be solely responsible for the operation and maintenance of the Drain Lines, and Grantor shall have no obligations whatsoever with respect thereto.

 2. Grantee, on behalf of itself, its heirs, successors and assigns in ownership and all future owners of the Property, shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend, to the extent permitted by law, The City of Seattle, its officers, employees and agents from and against any and all claims, actions, losses or damages of every kind and description (including without limitation attorneys' fees and losses relating to environmental matters) (each, a "Loss") which may hereafter accrue to, or be suffered by, any person or property by reason of, arising out of or related to the construction, operation, maintenance, use or presence of the Drain Lines in the Property. Grantee expressly agrees to waive its immunity under industrial insurance, Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington, to the extent necessary to provide the City with a full and complete indemnity from claims made by employees of Grantee. Grantee specifically and expressly agrees that such waiver of immunity was mutually negotiated by the parties.

 3. To the extent permitted by law, Grantee, on behalf of itself, its heirs, successors and assigns in ownership and all future owners of the Property, waives any right to assert any and all present and future claims against Grantor, whether known or unknown, for any Loss occurring either on or off the Property by reason of, arising out of or related to the construction, operation, maintenance, use or presence of Drain Lines in the Property.

 Grantor and Grantee intend the covenants and obligations contained herein to be equitable servitudes as well as real covenants running with the burdened land, and to be binding forever on Grantee, its heirs, successors and assigns in ownership and all future owners of the Property.

 GRANTEE: GRANTOR

 The City of Seattle

 ____________________ ______________________

 Jacqueline E. Pickrell Chuck Clarke, Director

 Date: _____________ Seattle Public Utilities

 Date: _____________

 STATE OF ____________________)

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF ____________________)

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Jacqueline E. Pickrell signed this instrument and acknowledged it to be her free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated:_________________________

 _________________________

 NAME (Print) _____________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington

 residing at ___________________.

 My appointment expires ________.

 (SEAL)

 STATE OF ____________________)

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF ____________________)

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Chuck Clarke signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute the instrument on behalf of Seattle Public Utilities of The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated_______________________

 _____________________________

 NAME (Print) _____________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington

 _____________________________,

 residing at ___________________.

 My appointment expires ________.

 (SEAL)

 1

 Attachment A to SPU Perkins Drainage Facilities ORD

 AGREEMENT FOR CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY INTERESTS

 (3231 Perkins Lane West)

 This Agreement for Conveyance of Property Interests (the "Agreement") is made as of ______________, 2004, by and between The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and through Seattle Public Utilities ("Seller" or "City"), and Susan E. Foster and Maurice J. Pirio, wife and husband ("Buyers").

 Whereas, in approximately 1937, there were constructed certain stormwater drainage pipelines in the real property legally described in Exhibit A hereto (the "Property") and with the address of 3231 Perkins Lane West, Seattle (the "Drain Lines") and also in the real property with the address of 3225 Perkins Lane West, Seattle;

 Whereas, such stormwater drainage pipelines currently exist and are shown approximately on the plans for City of Seattle Building Permit Application No. 2302702 (the "Plans"); and

 Whereas, Buyers are owners in fee of the Property and desire to construct a residential dwelling over a portion of the Drain Lines;

 Whereas, with respect to such construction, Buyers and City have entered into a Buildover Easement and Consent Agreement dated as of the date hereof (the "Consent Agreement");

 Whereas, Buyers desire to acquire all of City's right, title and interest in and with respect to the Drain Lines,

 Whereas, the City no longer has need for the Drain Lines for drainage system or other City purposes and desires to convey the Drain Lines to Buyers;

 Now, therefore, for and in consideration of the mutual promises and obligations contained herein and in the Consent Agreement, the parties agree as follows:

 Section 1. Conveyance

 Subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the City agrees to convey and transfer to Buyers and Buyers agree to accept from the City, all of the City's right, title and interest in and with respect to the Drain Lines, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Such conveyance shall be by quit claim deed substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto (the "Deed").

 Section 2. Consideration

 The parties agree that the transfer of responsibility for the Drain Lines from Seller to Buyers and Buyers' release and indemnification of the City, all as set forth in the Deed, constitute good and adequate consideration for the conveyance described in Section 1.

 Section 3. Conditions Precedent to Seller's Obligations

 The obligations of Seller hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions prior to or on the date of Closing pursuant to section 4, which conditions are for the benefit of Seller and may be waived only in writing by Seller, as follows:

 3.1 On or before March 1, 2005, an ordinance that authorizes the conveyance described in section 1 shall have been passed by the Seattle City Council and have become effective.

 3.2 On the date of, and immediately prior to Closing, Buyers shall be the owners in fee of the Property.

 3.3 On or before the date of Closing, the conveyance described in the Agreement for Conveyance of Real Property Interests (3225 Perkins Lane West), dated as of ________ 2004 between the City and Jacqueline E. Pickrell, has been completed.

 Unless all conditions to the Seller's obligations are satisfied on or before the date of Closing, the Seller shall have the right, at its sole option exercisable at any time thereafter by written notice to Buyers, to terminate this Agreement, without any liability to Buyer and in such case, Buyers shall have no liability to Seller.

 Section 4. Closing

 4.1 The conveyance contemplated hereunder shall be closed within 30 days after the effective date of the ordinance described in section 3.1. "Closing" means the recording of the Deed.

 4.2 On or before Closing, Buyers shall execute and deliver to Seller the Deed and customary closing documents. On or before Closing, Seller shall execute the Deed and customary closing documents. Seller shall cause the Deed to be recorded.

 Section 5. Condition of Drain Lines

 5.1 The terms and provisions of this section 5 shall survive Closing and shall not merge with the Deed.

 5.2 Buyers accept the conveyance of the Drain Lines "AS IS, WHERE IS." Buyers acknowledge that they are not relying on any representation, warranty or statement, express or implied, made by or on behalf of Seller or any of its officers, employees or agents as to any matter related to the actual location or condition of the Drain Lines, nor on any duty of Seller or such persons to disclose any such matter. Buyers assume all risks with respect to the Drain Lines.

 5.3 Seller makes no representations or warranties, express or implied, with respect to, and shall have no liability for: (a) the condition of the Property, the Drain Lines or any other improvements thereon, or the suitability, habitability, merchantability, or fitness of the Property or the Drain Lines for Buyer's intended use or for any use whatsoever; (b) compliance with any applicable building, zoning or fire laws or regulations or with any required permits of any governmental agency; (c) the historical use of the Drain Lines or (d) the presence of any hazardous substances on or under the Property, in the Drain Lines, or in any other improvements on the Property.

 5.4 Seller shall have no obligations whatsoever with respect to the Drain Lines from and after the Closing, and Buyers shall be solely responsible therefor.

 Section 6. Default

 If the conditions to Seller's obligations are satisfied or waived, Buyer tenders all documents required for Closing, and Seller fails, without legal excuse, to complete Closing, Buyer may seek specific performance of this Agreement. If Seller tenders all documents required for Closing and Buyer fails, without legal excuse, to complete Closing, Seller may seek specific performance of this Agreement. The parties agree that legal remedies are inadequate for default under this Agreement.

 Section 7. Notices

 All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, faxed, or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and shall be deemed received (a) upon receipt if hand delivered or faxed, or (b) on the earlier of actual receipt during normal working hours on a Business Day, or on the first Business Day that is at least two (2) days after the date when the notice is deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, addressed to Seller or Buyer at the addresses set forth below, or such other addresses as either party shall have provided to the other by written notice:

 Buyers: Susan E. Foster and Maurice J. Pirio

 2515 4th Avenue, Unit #2602

 Seattle, WA 98121

 Seller: City of Seattle SPU/Real Property - DWU

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 4900

 P.O. Box 34018

 Seattle, WA 98124-4018

 Notice of change of address shall be given by written notice in the manner detailed above.

 Section 8. Assignment

Neither party may assign its rights under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party, which consent may be withheld in that party's sole discretion.

 Article 9. General Provisions

 This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of Buyers and Seller with respect to the conveyance of the Drain Lines, and it supersedes all prior agreements between them, written or oral. This Agreement may be modified only in writing, signed by Buyers and Seller. Any waivers under this Agreement must be in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default will not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default. This Agreement is for the benefit of, and binding upon, Buyers and Seller and their successors and assigns, subject to the limit on assignment in section 8. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision. This Agreement shall not be binding upon the parties until the Consent Agreement is fully executed. Time is of the essence in all provisions of this Agreement. By this reference, all exhibits to this Agreement are incorporated herein.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: _______________________________

 Chuck Clarke, Director

 Seattle Public Utilities

 By: ________________________________

 Susan E. Foster

 By: ________________________________

 Maurice J. Pirio

 Exhibit A: Legal Description of Property

 Exhibit B: Form of Quit Claim Deed

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

 That portion of Tract 5 of Division "D" of Carleton Beach Tracts, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 25 of Plats, page 18, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at a point on the south line of said Tract 5, lying due west 150.00 feet thereon from the southeast corner of said Tract 5;

 Thence north 20.00 feet;

 Thence west 30.00 feet;

 Thence north 42( 16'25" west 74.33 feet to an intersection with the north line of said Tract 5;

 Thence west along said north line to an intersection with the westerly line of said Tract 5;

 Thence southeasterly along said westerly line to the south line of said Tract 5;

 Thence east along the south line of said Tract 5 to the point of beginning;

 TOGETHER WITH Lot 10 and the north half of Lot 11, Block 69; and Lot 14, Block 68, Seattle Tide Lands, according to the official maps thereof on file in the Office of the Commissioner of Public Lands in Olympia, Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH easements as created by instrument recorded under King County Recording Number 950321205 and Easements and License as created by instrument recorded under King County Recording Number 9503021206.

 Exhibit A of Attachment B

 FORM OF QUIT CLAIM DEED

 Recording Requested By And

 When Recorded Mail To:

 Susan E. Foster and Maurice J. Pirio

 2515 4th Avenue, Unit #2602

 Seattle, WA 98121

 QUIT CLAIM DEED

 Reference #s of Documents Released or Assigned: none

 Grantor(s): ........................................ The City of Seattle

 Grantee(s): ....................................... Susan E. Foster

 Maurice J. Pirio

 Legal Description (abbreviated): ............ portion of Lot 5, Block D, Carleton Beach TRS

 Assessor's Tax Parcel ID#: portion of 1364300291

 R/W #2004-16

 Seattle Public Utilities

 In consideration of Grantee's covenants and obligations hereunder and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, ("Grantor") conveys and quit claims to Susan E. Foster and Maurice J. Pirio, wife and husband, ("Grantee") all of Grantor's right, title and interest in and with respect to any stormwater drainage pipelines (the "Drain Lines") located in the real property legally described as follows:

 That portion of Tract 5 of Division "D" of Carleton Beach Tracts, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 25 of Plats, page 18, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at a point on the south line of said Tract 5, lying due west 150.00 feet thereon from the southeast corner of said Tract 5;

 Thence north 20.00 feet;

 Thence west 30.00 feet;

 Thence north 42( 16'25" west 74.33 feet to an intersection with the north line of said Tract 5;

 Thence west along said north line to an intersection with the westerly line of said Tract 5;

 Thence southeasterly along said westerly line to the south line of said Tract 5;Exhibit B of Attachment A

 Thence east along the south line of said Tract 5 to the point of beginning;

 Exhibit B of Attachment B

 TOGETHER WITH Lot 10 and the north half of Lot 11, Block 69; and Lot 14, Block 68, Seattle Tide Lands, according to the official maps thereof on file in the Office of the Commissioner of Public Lands in Olympia, Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH easements as created by instrument recorded under King County Recording Number 950321205 and Easements and License as created by instrument recorded under King County Recording Number 9503021206

 (the "Property"), together with all after acquired title of the Grantor therein.

 Grantor reserves unto itself all right, title, and interest in that certain easement recorded under King County Recording No. 8811030285.

 Grantee covenants as follows:

 1. From and after the date hereof, Grantee, its heirs, successors and assigns in ownership and all future owners of the Property, shall be solely responsible for the operation and maintenance of the Drain Lines, and Grantor shall have no obligations whatsoever with respect thereto.

 2. Grantee, on behalf of itself, its heirs, successors and assigns in ownership and all future owners of the Property, shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend, to the extent permitted by law, The City of Seattle, its officers, employees and agents from and against any and all claims, actions, losses or damages of every kind and description (including without limitation attorneys' fees and losses relating to environmental matters) (each, a "Loss") which may hereafter accrue to, or be suffered by, any person or property by reason of, arising out of or related to the construction, operation, maintenance, use or presence of the Drain Lines in the Property. Grantee expressly agrees to waive its immunity under industrial insurance, Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington, to the extent necessary to provide the City with a full and complete indemnity from claims made by employees of Grantee. Grantee specifically and expressly agrees that such waiver of immunity was mutually negotiated by the parties.

 3. To the extent permitted by law, Grantee, on behalf of itself, its heirs, successors and assigns in ownership and all future owners of the Property, waives any right to assert any and all present and future claims against Grantor, whether known or unknown, for any Loss occurring either on or off the Property by reason of, arising out of or related to the construction, operation, maintenance, use or presence of Drain Lines in the Property.

 Grantor and Grantee intend the covenants and obligations contained herein to be equitable servitudes as well as real covenants running with the burdened land, and to be binding forever on Grantee, its

 heirs, successors and assigns in ownership and all future owners of the Property.

 GRANTEE: GRANTOR

 The City of Seattle

 ____________________ ______________________

 Susan E. Foster Chuck Clarke, Director

 Date: _____________ Seattle Public Utilities

 Date: _____________

 ______________________

 Maurice J. Pirio

 Date: ______________

 STATE OF ____________________)

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF ____________________)

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Susan E. Foster and Maurice J. Pirio signed this instrument and acknowledged it to be their free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated:_________________________

 _________________________

 NAME (Print) _____________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington

 residing at ___________________.

 My appointment expires ________.

 (SEAL)

 STATE OF ____________________)

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF ____________________)

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Chuck Clarke signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute the instrument on behalf of Seattle Public Utilities of The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated_______________________

 _____________________________

 NAME (Print) _____________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington

 _____________________________,

 residing at ___________________.

 My appointment expires ________.

 (SEAL)

 Attachment B to SPU Perkins Drainage Facilities ORD

```
