

********

**Council Bill Number: 115220**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121779**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the finances of the solid waste system of The City of Seattle; amending Ordinance 121254 and Resolution 30638 to extend the maturity date of the City's Solid Waste System Revenue Bond Anticipation Note, 2003 (Nonrevolving Line of Credit), and amending Ordinance 121254 to extend the maturity dates of both the note and authorized bonds.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 18, 2005
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Rasmussen)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 26, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 26, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 11, 2005
   
**Committee:** Utilities & Technology
   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON
   
   
**Index Terms:** BONDS, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, TRANSFER-STATIONS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 121254; Resolution 30638

**Fiscal Note:**115220

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the finances of the solid waste system of The City of Seattle; amending Ordinance 121254 and Resolution 30638 to extend the maturity date of the City's Solid Waste System Revenue Bond Anticipation Note, 2003 (Nonrevolving Line of Credit), and amending Ordinance 121254 to extend the maturity dates of both the note and authorized bonds.

 Passed ________________, 2005

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 Page

 SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS. 1

 SECTION 2. AMENDMENTS TO AUTHORIZING ORDINANCE. 1

 SECTION 3. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 1 OF NOTE RESOLUTION 5

 SECTION 4. AMENDMENT OF SECTION 2 OF NOTE RESOLUTION. 9

 SECTION 5. LEGISLATION IN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT. 10

 SECTION 6. APPROVAL OF EXTENSION. 10

 SECTION 7. GENERAL AUTHORIZATION. 10

 SECTION 8. SEVERABILITY. 10

 SECTION 9. RATIFICATION OF PRIOR ACTS. 10

 SECTION 10. SECTION HEADINGS. 10

 SECTION 11. EFFECTIVE DATE. 11

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the finances of the solid waste system of The City of Seattle; amending Ordinance 121254 and Resolution 30638 to extend the maturity date of the City's Solid Waste System Revenue Bond Anticipation Note, 2003 (Nonrevolving Line of Credit), and amending Ordinance 121254 to extend the maturity dates of both the note and authorized bonds.

 WHEREAS, The City of Seattle (the "City") owns a solid waste collection and disposal system, operated and maintained as part of Seattle Public Utilities (the "Solid Waste System"), which Solid Waste System has from time to time required various additions, improvements and extensions; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 121254 (the "Authorizing Ordinance") the City adopted a plan of additions or betterments to or extensions of the Solid Waste System (the "Plan of Additions"), authorized the issuance of solid waste revenue bonds (the "Bonds") in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $21,300,000 for the purpose of financing a portion of the Plan of Additions, and provided for the sale of short-term subordinate lien obligations of the Solid Waste System pending the issuance of bonds; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to the Authorizing Ordinance and Resolution 30638 (the "Note Resolution" and, together with the Authorizing Ordinance, the "Note Legislation"), the City issued its Solid Waste System Revenue Bond Anticipation Note, 2003 (Nonrevolving Line of Credit) (the "Note"), as a short-term subordinate lien obligation of the Solid Waste System, which Note matures on July 1, 2005; and

 WHEREAS, the City has determined that it is in the best interest of the City to extend the maturity date of the Note to December 31, 2006, and Bank of America, N.A., as owner of the Note, has agreed to the extension of maturity under the same terms and conditions set forth in the Note Legislation; and

 WHEREAS, the City also has determined that it is in the best interest of the City to extend the authorized maturity date of the Bonds; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Definitions.

 The meaning of capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in the recitals to this Ordinance shall be as set forth in the Note Legislation.

 Section 2. Amendments to Authorizing Ordinance.

 Section 3 of Ordinance 121254 is amended to read as follows:

 Section 3. Authorization and Description of Bonds. For the purpose of providing all or a part of the money required to (i) finance part of the cost of carrying out the Plan of Additions, including repaying Notes that may be issued pursuant to Section 23 of this ordinance, (ii) provide for a reserve for the Bonds, and (iii) pay the costs of issuing and selling the Bonds, the City shall issue and sell the Bonds in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed Twenty-one Million Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($21,3000,000). The Bonds may be issued in one or more series; may be combined with other Parity Bonds authorized separately; shall be called "The City of Seattle, Washington, Solid Waste Revenue Bonds ~~, 2003~~"; may have such different or further designation or designations as determined by the Bond Resolution or the Director of Finance fixing the terms of and matters relating to the Bonds (collectively, the "Bond Resolution"); shall be dated and shall mature on such date or dates specified in the Bond Resolution, except that the final maturity date of the Bonds shall not extend beyond December 31, ~~2033~~2035; shall be issued in fully registered form in the denomination of Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) or any integral multiple thereof within a single maturity or such other denomination within a maturity provided by the Bond Resolution; shall be numbered separately in the manner and with any additional designation as the Bond Registrar for the Bonds deems necessary for purposes of identification; shall bear interest at the rate or rates (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30- day months) specified in the Bond Resolution, except that the net interest cost shall not exceed a weighted average rate of eight percent (8.0%) per annum, payable at the times specified in the Bond Resolution; and shall have such denominations, mature on such dates and be subject to optional or mandatory redemption, open market purchase or defeasance on the terms and at the times specified in the Bond Resolution. The Director of Finance may designate Term Bonds with mandatory redemption amounts, all to be provided by the Bond Resolution.

 The City Council may adopt the Bond Resolution and in that resolution may provide for the matters described in this ordinance, and such other matters that the City Council deems necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this ordinance. Once adopted, the Bond Resolution shall be deemed a part of this ordinance as if set forth herein.

 The Bond Resolution may provide for Qualified Insurance or a Qualified Letter of Credit, and conditions or covenants relating thereto, including additional terms, conditions and covenants relating to the Bonds that are required by the provider thereof and are consistent with the provisions of this ordinance, including but not limited to restrictions on investments and requirements of notice to and consent of the insurance or letter of credit provider.

 The City Council may determine and specify by the Bond Resolution the amount, if any, from the proceeds of or accrued interest on the Bonds to be deposited into specified funds, subfunds, accounts and subaccounts. In the absence of such a determination and specification in the Bond Resolution, the Director of Finance may make such determination and specification.

 The Bond Resolution may approve and authorize the execution and delivery on behalf of the City of any agreements consistent with the provisions of this ordinance for which the City's approval is necessary or to which the City is a party and that are related or incidental to the initial issuance and sale of the Bonds, the initial establishment of the interest rate or rates on the Bonds, redemption of the Bonds, provision of Qualified Insurance or a Qualified Letter of Credit, including but not limited to Payment Agreements and similar agreements.

 Section 23 of Ordinance 121254 is amended to read as follows:

 Section 23. Authorization and Description of Notes. If the Director of Finance determines that it is not feasible or in the best interest of the City to issue any portion of the Bonds at such time as the Solid Waste System requires the proceeds to pay costs of the Plan of Additions, the City shall issue the Notes in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed Twenty-One Million Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($21,300,000), to pay all or a portion of the costs of the Plan of Additions and the costs of issuing and selling the Notes, pending the receipt of the proceeds of the Bonds and other sources of repayment (including, but not limited to, proceeds of bonds, notes or other revenue obligations of the Solid Waste System which may hereafter be authorized by ordinance to redeem the Notes, and Net Revenue; provided that the lien and charge of the Notes on the Net Revenue shall be subordinate to the lien and charge of the Parity Bonds.)

 The Notes shall be issued in one or more series; shall ~~be~~ have such title or further designation or designations as determined by the Director of Finance or as the City Council may specify in a resolution or resolutions fixing the terms of and matters relating to the Notes (collectively, the "Note Resolution"); shall be dated ~~and shall mature~~ on such date or dates specified in the Note Resolution, except that the final maturity date of any series of the Notes shall not extend beyond ~~July 1, 2005~~December 31, 2006; shall bear interest at the rate or rates specified in the Note Resolution, except that the net interest cost of any series of the Notes shall not exceed an initial weighted average rate of eight percent (8.0%) per annum, payable at the times and in the manner specified in the Note Resolution; and shall have such denominations, mature on such dates and be subject to optional or mandatory redemption, open market purchase or defeasance on the terms and at the times specified in the Note Resolution. The Notes may be issued as fixed rate, adjustable rate or commercial paper obligations, line of credit, or other forms of obligations, all under such terms as may be specified in the Note Resolution.

 The Note Resolution shall set forth the manner of registration and provisions relating to the payment and transfer of the Notes and, if necessary, appoint a Note registrar.

 The City Council may adopt the Note Resolution and may provide therein for the matters related to the issuance and sale of Notes described in this Section, and such other matters that the City Council deems necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this ordinance. Once adopted, the Note Resolution shall be deemed a part of this ordinance as if set forth herein.

 The Note Resolution may provide for municipal bond insurance, a letter of credit, a standby bond purchase agreement, or other form of credit or liquidity facility, and conditions or covenants relating thereto, including additional terms, conditions and covenants relating to the Notes that are required by the bond insurer or credit or liquidity facility provider and are consistent with the provisions of this ordinance, including but not limited to restrictions on investments and requirements of notice to and consent of the bond insurer or letter of credit provider.

 The Note Resolution may approve and authorize the execution and delivery on behalf of the City of any contracts consistent with the provisions of this ordinance for which the City's approval is necessary or to which the City is a party and that are related or incidental to the initial issuance and sale of the Notes, the initial establishment of the interest rate or rates on the Notes and any redemption of the Notes.

 The City may by the Note Resolution appoint or provide for the appointment by the Director of Finance of a tender agent, a paying agent, a remarketing agent and a bank furnishing liquidity or credit support for the Notes. The Note Resolution shall approve and authorize the execution of contracts covering the duties of those agents, the bank and the City with respect to the Notes.

 Section 3. Amendment of Section 1 of Note Resolution.

 Section 1 of Resolution 30638 is amended to read as follows:

 Section 1. Definitions. The meaning of capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this resolution shall be as set forth in the Authorizing Ordinance.

 Authorizing Ordinance means Ordinance 121254 of the City authorizing the issuance of the Bonds and the Note.

 Bank means Bank of America, N.A., as registered owner of the Note.

 Bank Fees means the following:

 (i) an origination fee (the "Origination Fee") of $10,650, payable on the Closing Date,

 (ii) the attorney fees incurred by the Bank in connection with the Note (the "Bank Counsel Fees"), in an amount not to exceed $2,500, payable on the Closing Date and an amount not to exceed $2,000, payable on the date of the extension of the Note to 2006, and

 (iii) an unused commitment fee (the "Unused Commitment Fee") in the amount of 0.05% per year, payable quarterly in arrears on each Payment Date and calculated based on the difference between the maximum permitted Draws on the Note ($21,300,000) and the actual average principal amount of Draws outstanding during the three month period ending on that Payment Date.

 Business Day means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks located in Seattle, Washington, are closed for business.

 Closing Date means the date of delivery of the Note to the Bank.

 Current LIBOR Fixed Rate means the fixed interest rate per annum that the Bank determines could be obtained by reinvesting a specified Prepaid Installment in the London inter-bank market from the date of prepayment through the Original Payment Date.

 Draw means each periodic draw by the City on the Line of Credit.

 Draw Date means the date of disbursement of a Draw by the Bank.

 Draw Request means a written request by the Director of Finance for a Draw in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A to this resolution.

 Initial LIBOR Fixed Rate means the fixed interest rate per annum that the Bank determines could be obtained by reinvesting the amount of the Prepaid Installment in the London inter-bank market from the later of the Draw Date or the most recent Interest Reset Request with respect to the applicable Draw through the Original Payment Date.

 Interest Reset Request means a written request by the Director of Finance to convert the interest rate mode or extend the LIBOR Interest Period with respect to any Draw or Draws in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B to this resolution.

 LIBOR-Based Rate means a rate equal to 65% of the LIBOR Fixed Rate, plus a spread of 0.64%.

 LIBOR Conversion Date means the effective date of a conversion of the interest rate mode on any Draw from the Prime-Based Rate to the LIBOR- Based Rate.

 LIBOR Fixed Rate means a fixed rate of interest (rounded upwards, if necessary to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) for a period equal to the LIBOR Interest Period selected by the Director of Finance appearing on the display designated as "Page 3750" on the Telerate Service or "BBAM 1" on the Bloomberg Service (or such other page on either service or such other service designated by the British Bankers' Association for the display of that Association's London Interbank Offer Rates (LIBOR) for U.S. Dollar deposits) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time, two London Banking Days before each LIBOR Reset Date as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in United States Dollars, as adjusted from time to time in the Bank's sole discretion for then- applicable reserve requirements, deposit insurance assessment rates and other regulatory costs. The first day of the LIBOR Interest Period must be a London Banking Day. The date of the last day of the LIBOR Interest Period and the actual number of days during the LIBOR Interest Period will be determined by the Bank using the practices of the London inter-bank market.

 LIBOR Interest Period means a one to 12-month period (consisting of one-month increments) beginning on any LIBOR Reset Date, and ending on or before the Maturity Date, the length to be specified by the Director of Finance in the applicable Draw Request or Interest Reset Request.

 LIBOR Reset Date means (i) a Draw Date (if the City selects to apply the LIBOR-Based Rate to the Draw made on such Draw Date), (ii) any LIBOR Conversion Date, and (iii) with respect to LIBOR Interest Periods after a Draw Date or LIBOR Conversion Date, the first day of that LIBOR Interest Period.

 Line of Credit means the nonrevolving line of credit extended by the Bank pursuant to this resolution and evidenced by the Note.

 London Banking Day means a day on which the Bank's London Banking Center is open for business and dealing in offshore dollars.

 Maturity Date means ~~July 1,~~~~2005~~December 31, 2006.

 Note means The City of Seattle, Washington, Solid Waste System Revenue Bond Anticipation Note, 2003 (Non-Revolving Line of Credit) authorized to be issued under and pursuant to the Authorizing Ordinance and this resolution.

 Note Account means the 2003 Note Account created in the Solid Waste Fund by Section 9 of this resolution for the purpose of paying principal of and interest on the Note.

 Note Legislation means, collectively, the Authorizing Ordinance and this resolution.

 Note Register means the records maintained by the Note Registrar as described in Section 7 of this resolution.

 Note Registrar means the Director of Finance.

 Original Payment Date means the date on which the principal of a Prepaid Installment would have been paid if there had been no prepayment. If a portion of the principal would have been paid later than the end of the LIBOR Interest Period in effect at the time of prepayment, then the Original Payment Date for that portion shall be the last day of the LIBOR Interest Period.

 Payment Date means the first Business Day of each January, April, July and October, commencing January 2, 2004.

 Prepaid Installment means the portion of the prepaid principal of any Draw or Draws that would have been paid on a single Original Payment Date.

 Prepayment Fee means the prepayment fee described in Section 6 of this resolution.

 Prime-Based Rate means a variable rate equal to 65% of the Bank's Prime Rate, minus a spread of 1.12%.

 Prime Conversion Date means the effective date of a conversion of the interest rate mode on any Draw from the LIBOR-Based Rate to the Prime- Based Rate.

 Prime Rate means the rate of interest publicly announced from time to time by Bank as its Prime Rate. Any change in the Prime Rate shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of a change in the Bank's Prime Rate.

 Subordinate Lien Obligations means the Note and any obligations issued on a parity of lien with the Note pursuant to Section 11 of this resolution.

 Section 4. Amendment of Section 2 of Note Resolution.

 Section 2 of Resolution 30638 is amended to read as follows:

 Section 2. Authorization and Description of the Note; Draws. For the purpose of providing all or part of the funds with which to pay costs of the Plan of Additions pending the issuance of the Bonds, and to pay interest on Draws, Bank Fees and other costs of issuing the Note, the City may borrow money from time to time pursuant to the Line of Credit, and shall issue the Note in the principal amount of not to exceed Twenty-One Million Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($21,300,000).

 The Note shall be designated The City of Seattle, Washington, Solid Waste System Revenue Bond Anticipation Note, 2003 (Non-Revolving Line of Credit). The Note shall be issued in registered form; shall be dated as of its date of delivery to the Bank; and shall mature on ~~July 1,~~~~2005~~December 31, 2006 (the "Maturity Date").

 The City may make Draws on the Line of Credit, pursuant to a Draw Request, on any Business Day during the term of the Note for the purposes identified in this Section 2. No Draw may exceed the total amount of the costs to be paid from such Draw, and the proceeds of each Draw shall be used to pay those costs, or to reimburse the City for such costs paid by the City. Draws shall be recorded in such form as the City and the Bank may agree and shall not exceed Twenty-One Million Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($21,300,000) in the aggregate.

 Section 5. Legislation in Full Force and Effect.

 Except as set forth in Sections 2, 3 and 4 of this ordinance, the Authorizing Ordinance and the Note Resolution shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect in all other respects.

 Section 6. Approval of Extension.

 The Bank has offered to provide an extension of the maturity of the Note under the terms and conditions contained in this ordinance. The City Council finds that such offer is in the best interest of the City and accepts such offer.

 Section 7. General Authorization.

 The Mayor and the Director of Finance of the City and each of the other appropriate officers of the City are each authorized and directed to do everything as in their judgment may be necessary, appropriate or desirable for the extension of the Note, including without limitation, the execution and delivery of an amended Note and such other documents as are useful or necessary to the purposes of this ordinance.

 Section 8. Severability.

 The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If a court of competent jurisdiction, all appeals having been exhausted or all appeal periods having run, finds any provision of this ordinance to be invalid or unenforceable as to any person or circumstance, such offending provision shall, if feasible, be deemed to be modified to be within the limits of enforceability or validity. However, if the offending provision cannot be so modified, it shall be null and void with respect to the particular person or circumstance, and all other provisions of this ordinance in all other respects, and the offending provision with respect to all other persons and all other circumstances, shall remain valid and enforceable.

 Section 9. Ratification of Prior Acts.

 Any action taken consistent with the authority but prior to the effective date of this ordinance is ratified, approved and confirmed.

 Section 10. Section Headings.

 The section headings in this ordinance are used for convenience only and shall not constitute a substantive portion of this ordinance.

 Section 11. Effective Date.

 This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved by the Mayor and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _____________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ____ day of ______________, 2005. ________________________________________ President __________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this ___ day of ____________, 2005. ________________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of ______________, 2005. _________________________________________ City Clerk

 Hugh D. Spitzer/WA April 13, 2005 Version 7 t

```
