

********

**Council Bill Number: 115270**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121839**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Ship Canal Trail; accepting deeds and easements; transferring jurisdiction of certain real property near the Ballard Bridge from the Fleets and Facilities Department to Seattle Department of Transportation; authorizing the execution and delivery of deeds of right to the State of Washington; authorizing the acquisition of property and acceptance of deeds; and authorizing the execution and delivery of a crossing easement agreement.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 20, 2005
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Compton)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 30, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 29, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 31, 2005
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, QUEEN-ANNE, TRAILS, EASEMENTS, BIKEWAYS, LAKE-UNION

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 114900, 117468, 117618, 118343

**Fiscal Note:**115270

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Ship Canal Trail; accepting deeds and easements; transferring jurisdiction of certain real property near the Ballard Bridge from the Fleets and Facilities Department to Seattle Department of Transportation; authorizing the execution and delivery of deeds of right to the State of Washington; authorizing the acquisition of property and acceptance of deeds; and authorizing the execution and delivery of a crossing easement agreement.

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 114900 authorized the acquisition of real property and real property rights through negotiation for certain trail projects, including the Ship Canal Trail; and

 WHEREAS, the City has previously, under authority of Ordinances 117468, 117618 and 118343, accepted real property and property rights between the Fremont Bridge and the Ballard Bridge for Phases I and II of the Ship Canal Trail, including a Quitclaim Deed from Burlington Northern Railroad Company for Phase I of the Ship Canal Trail; and

 WHEREAS, certain property was unintentionally omitted from Burlington Northern Railroad Company's Quitclaim Deed to the City; and

 WHEREAS, the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company, formerly Burlington Northern Railroad Company, has corrected its Quitclaim Deed to the City and the City now desires to accept the corrected deed; and

 WHEREAS, the City has acquired additional real property and real property rights between 8th Avenue West and West Emerson Street for Phase II of the Ship Canal Trail from Argonaut Properties, Inc., the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company, and King County, and the City desires to accept the easements and deeds; and

 WHEREAS, the City requires additional property, currently owned by the Port of Seattle, and the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company, for Phase II of the Ship Canal Trail; and

 WHEREAS, additional real property, currently under the jurisdiction of the Fleets and Facilities Department, is needed for Phase II of the Ship Canal Trail; and

 WHEREAS, Resolution 29799 adopted policies and procedures and a process for notifying other City departments or other government agencies of the potential availability of property excess to department needs; and

 WHEREAS, after being notified of the potential availability of property identified in Section 8 below, no other City department or other government agency has requested jurisdiction or has proposed a public use of the property, and the Fleets and Facilities Department desires to transfer jurisdiction to the Seattle Department of Transportation; and

 WHEREAS, under authority of Ordinance 118683, the City entered into a project agreement with the State of Washington, through the Interagency Committee for Outdoor Recreation, for grant funds for acquisition of real property for Phase II of the Ship Canal Trail ("Phase II Project Agreement"); and

 WHEREAS, the Phase II Project Agreement required the City to convey and grant to the State of Washington Deeds of Right to Use Land for Public Recreation Purposes ("Deeds of Right") concerning the real property acquired for Phase II of the Ship Canal Trail no later than June, 2004; and

 WHEREAS, to secure the grant funding, three Deeds of Right were recorded on March 30, 2004 under King County recording numbers 20040330000933, 20040330000934 and 20040330000935; and

 WHEREAS, in consideration for the City's agreement to relinquish rights to purchase certain real property from the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company, Foss Maritime Company ("Foss") and FRC/BN Ewing Street LLC ("LLC"), owners of property abutting the Ship Canal Trail, agreed to replace certain railroad crossing easements with easements acceptable to the City and to quitclaim their interests, if any, in portions of the Ship Canal Trail;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Quitclaim Deed (Correction) from the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company, formerly Burlington Northern Railroad Company, dated December 29, 2003 and recorded under King County recording number 20031230001962, a copy of which is attached hereto as Attachment 1 and incorporated herein ("Phase I Correction Deed"), is hereby accepted for recreation and transportation purposes consistent with the interim trail use and railbanking provisions of the National Trail Systems Act (16 U.S.C. Section 1241 et seq.) and that certain Offer to Purchase and Interim Trail Use/Railbanking Agreement dated December 28, 1994 between Burlington Northern Railroad Company and the City. The real property described in the Phase I Correction Deed shall be under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 2. The Easement granted by Argonaut Properties, Inc. by Easement Agreement dated September 27, 2001 and recorded under King County recording number 20010927002918, a copy of which is attached hereto as Attachment 2 and incorporated herein, is hereby accepted for multi-purpose trail purposes and placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 3. The Quitclaim Deed from the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company, dated December 29, 2003 and recorded under King County recording number 20031230001963, a copy of which is attached hereto as Attachment 3 and incorporated herein ("Phase II Deed"), is hereby accepted (a) for recreation and transportation purposes consistent with the interim trail use and railbanking provisions of the National Trail Systems Act (16 U.S.C. Section 1241 et seq.) and that certain Agreement by and between the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company and the City of Seattle Concerning the Transfer of Land and Other Property Interests, the Relocation of Track, the Correction of a Deed and Interim Trail Use/Railbanking Agreement dated December 29, 2003, as to the real property described in Exhibit A to the Phase II Deed, and (b) for multi-purpose trail purposes as to the real property described in Exhibit B to the Phase II Deed. The real property described in the Phase II Deed shall be under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 4. The Easement granted by the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company dated July 27, 2004 and recorded under King County recording number 20040730002147, a copy of which is attached hereto as Attachment 4 and incorporated herein, is hereby accepted for multi- purpose trail purposes and placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 5. The Warranty Deed from King County dated August 20, 2004 and recorded under King County recording number 20040820002059, a copy of which is attached hereto as Attachment 5 and incorporated herein ("King County Deed"), is hereby accepted for multi-purpose trail purposes. The real property described in the King County Deed shall be under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 6. The Director of Transportation or her designee is hereby authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to acquire from the Port of Seattle the following described real property for Phase II of the Ship Canal Trail for a purchase price equivalent to fair market value, as determined by appraisal:

 Lot 10, Block 100, Gilman's Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 5 of Plats, page 93, in King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT that portion condemned by the city of Seattle for street purposes on July 16, 1959, under King County Superior Court Cause No. 516133.

 Upon delivery of a deed, from the Port of Seattle ("Port Deed"), the Director of Transportation or her designee is hereby authorized to accept the Port Deed on behalf of the City of Seattle by attaching to the deed her written acceptance thereof, and to record the same. The real property described in the Port Deed shall be accepted for multi- purpose trail purposes and placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 7. The Director of Transportation or her designee is hereby authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to acquire from the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company the following described real property for Phase II of the Ship Canal Trail for a purchase price equivalent to fair market value, as determined by appraisal:

 That portion of the Unplatted Reserve A, Gilman's Addition to the City of Seattle, King County, Washington Assessors Parcel number 7666200105, situate in the Northeast quarter of Section 14, Township 25 North, Range 3 West of the Willamette Meridian, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of Lot 20, Block 100 of Gilman's Addition to the City of Seattle, as recorded in Volume 5 of Plats, Page 93, records of King County, Washington, said point also being the intersection of the North margin of (?) W. Emerson St and the West margin of vacated alley per condemnation order number 88352;

 Thence S 89( 50' 03" W, along the North margin of W. Emerson St., 116.99 feet, more or less, to a point that intersects a line that is 5 feet westerly and parallel with the east line of said Reserve A, and the Point of Beginning;

 Thence N 26( 01' 43" E, along said parallel line, 73 feet;

 Thence S 39( 59' 05" W, 85.64 feet, more or less, to the North margin of W. Emerson St;

 Thence N 89( 50' 03" E, along the North margin of W. Emerson St, 23 feet, more or less, to the Point of Beginning.

 Containing 753 square feet or .02 acres, more or less.

 Upon delivery of a deed from the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company ("BNSF Deed"), the Director of Transportation or her designee is hereby authorized to accept the BNSF Deed on behalf of the City of Seattle by attaching to the deed her written acceptance thereof, and to record the same. The above-described real property shall be accepted for multi-purpose trail purposes and placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 8. Jurisdiction over the following described real property is hereby transferred from the Fleets and Facilities Department to the Seattle Department of Transportation for multi-purpose trail purposes:

 Parcel A

 Lot 11 of Block 100 of the Plat of Gilman's Add as recorded in Volume 5, Page 93 of Plats, Records of King County, Washington being in the NW 1/4 of Sec 13, T25N, R3E and the NE 1/4 of Sec 14, T25N, R3E WM.

 Except the northwesterly 20 feet as measured parallel with the northwesterly line of said lot.

 Except that portion of said lot 11 that was condemned for street right-of-way purposes for the W. Nickerson St. ramp to 15th Ave. W. recorded in the City of Seattle Condemnation Ordinance #88352.

 Area of this parcel is approximately 412 square feet.

 Parcel B

 The northeasterly 6 feet of Lot 15 of Block 100 of the Plat of Gilman's Add as recorded in Volume 5, Page 93 of Plats, Records of King County, Washington as measured parallel with the northeasterly line of said lot.

 Area of this parcel is approximately 63 square feet.

 Section 9. The Director of Transportation or her designee is hereby authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to execute and convey Deeds of Right to Use Land for Public Recreation Purposes from the City of Seattle to the State of Washington, consistent with the Phase II Project Agreement, to secure grant funding from the State of Washington, through the Interagency Committee for Outdoor Recreation.

 Section 10. The Director of Transportation or her designee is hereby authorized on behalf of the City of Seattle to enter into an easement agreement with FRC/BN Ewing Street LLC and Foss Maritime Company, substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 6 and incorporated herein, granting easements for crossings and utilities across the Ship Canal Trail.

 Section 11. The Director of Transportation or her designee is hereby authorized on behalf of the City of Seattle to accept a quitclaim deed from FRC/BN Ewing Street LLC and Foss Maritime Company substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 7 and incorporated herein.

 Section 12. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 13. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Quitclaim Deed (Correction) from the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company to the City of Seattle (Phase I)

 Exhibit A to Attachment 1: Legal Description

 Exhibit A-1 to Attachment 1: Legal Description

 Attachment 2: Easement Agreement between Argonaut Properties, Inc. and the City of Seattle

 Exhibit A to Attachment 2: Legal Description of Grantor's Property

 Exhibit B to Attachment 2: Legal Description of Trail Easement Area and Permitted Exceptions

 Attachment 3: Quitclaim Deed from the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company to the City of Seattle (Phase II)

 Exhibit A to Attachment 3: Legal Description of Railbank Premises

 Exhibit B to Attachment 3: Legal Description of Sale Premises

 Attachment 4: Easement granted by the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company to the City of Seattle

 Exhibit A to Attachment 4: Legal Description of Parcel H (BNSF Crossing Easement)

 Attachment 5: Warranty Deed from King County to the City of Seattle

 Attachment 6: Crossing Easement Agreement among Foss Maritime Company, FRC/BN Ewing Street LLC and the City of Seattle

 Exhibit A to Attachment 6: Legal Description of Trail Property

 Exhibit B-1 to Attachment 6: Legal Description of FRC Property

 Exhibit B-2 to Attachment 6: Legal Description of Foss Property

 Exhibit C to Attachment 6: Legal Description of Crossing Areas

 Attachment 7: Quitclaim Deed from Foss Maritime Company and FRC/BN Ewing Street LLC to the City of Seattle

 Exhibit A to Attachment 7: Legal Description of Trail Property (portions of Phase II)

 Larry Huggins

 ShipCanalDeedAcceptanceOrdinance

 February 8, 2005

 version #2a

 1

 After Recording Return to:

 Michael McCormack

 Jameson Babbitt Stites & Lombard

 999 Third Avenue

 Suite 1900

 Seattle, Washington 98104

 CROSSING EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 Reference numbers of related documents:

 20030103001725

 Grantor: THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 Grantee(s):

 1. FOSS MARITIME COMPANY

 2. FRC/BN EWING STREET LLC

 Legal Description:

 1. Abbreviated form: Portions of Government Lots 3 and 5 of Section 13, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, Willamette Meridian, in King County, Washington.

 2. Additional legal description is on Exhibits A, B-1, B-2 and C of document.

 Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number(s): Portions of 970360- 0010-06, 132503-9012-00, 132503-9006-08.

 THIS CROSSING EASEMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made this __ day of __________, 20__, among THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("City"); FRC/BN EWING STREET LLC, a Washington limited liability company ("FRC"); and FOSS MARITIME COMPANY, a Washington corporation ("Foss").

 RECITALS

 A. The City owns certain real property in Seattle, King County, Washington, which is more fully described in Exhibit A attached hereto (the "Trail Property"). The City acquired the Trail Property for use as part of its public trail system. The Trail Property is a portion of a rail corridor formerly owned by The Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company ("BNSF").

 B. FRC owns certain real property in Seattle, King County, Washington, which is more fully described in Exhibit B-1 (the "FRC Property"). Portions of the FRC Property are adjacent to real property owned by Foss. Foss is an affiliate of FRC. The property owned by Foss is described in Exhibit B-2 (the "Foss Property").

 C. The City is willing to grant a crossing easement to FRC an-d Foss over a portion of the Trail Property to provide ingress to and egress from the Foss Property and the FRC Property and to grant a utilities easement under a portion of the Trail Property for the benefit of the Foss Property and the FRC Property, both subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and subject to the future restoration of rail service as set forth in Section 8 below.

 D. By executing and recording this Agreement, the parties desire to replace and supersede in its entirety that certain Easement between BNSF, FRC and Foss recorded January 3, 2003 under Recording No. 20030103001725, Department of Records and Elections, King County, Washington ("BNSF/Foss Easement") as set forth in Section 9 below.

 E. The parties desire to set forth their respective understandings and agreements regarding the foregoing in the form of this Agreement.

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, together with other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the City, FRC and Foss agree as follows:

 1. Crossing Easement. The City hereby grants and quit claims to FRC and Foss, for each and the heirs, successors and assigns of each, a perpetual non-exclusive crossing easement over and across the areas collectively described in Exhibit C as the "Crossing Area" for the purposes of permitting (a) vehicular and pedestrian ingress to and egress from the FRC Property and the Foss Property ("Crossing") and (b) the construction, installation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of pavement and necessary drainage facilities ("Crossing Improvements") and for no other purpose. Parking of vehicles and placing equipment or objects or obstacles of any sort in the Crossing Area are expressly prohibited. The easement granted pursuant to this Section 1 shall be appurtenant to the FRC Property and the Foss Property.

 2. Utilities Easement. The City hereby grants and quit claims to FRC and Foss, for each and the heirs, successors and assigns of each, a perpetual non-exclusive easement beneath the ground surface of the Crossing Area for the installation and maintenance of utilities to serve the FRC Property and the Foss Property ("Utilities Easement"). This grant is subject to the rights of all existing utilities in or crossing the Crossing Area and to the right of the City to install utilities in the future. In the event that utilities installed by FRC, Foss or their heirs, successors or assigns must be relocated to accommodate the needs of the City, such relocation shall be at the sole cost of FRC and Foss or their heirs, successors and assigns, as applicable. The easement granted pursuant to this Section 2 shall be appurtenant to the FRC Property and the Foss Property.

 3. Design and Construction.

 3.1 Crossing. FRC and Foss shall design, prepare plans and specifications for, obtain all applicable permits for and construct, at no cost to the City, the surface pavement, base and subgrade of the Crossing. FRC and Foss shall consult with the City in the course of preparing plans to incorporate all requirements and specifications of the City and standards applicable to public trail facilities. Construction of the Crossing shall not begin until the City has approved the final plans and specifications, FRC and Foss have obtained all necessary permits, and FRC and Foss have complied with all requirements, statutes, rules and regulations applicable to the design and construction of the Crossing. FRC and Foss agree, for themselves, their heirs, successors and assigns, that in the event they decide to construct Crossing Improvements prior to such time as the City constructs a trail on the Trail Property, they shall be responsible for all costs associated with grade and drainage changes in the Crossing Area related to trail construction.

 3.2 Utilities.

 3.2.1 General. Prior to installing any utilities under the Crossing Area, FRC and Foss shall submit to the City plans for such installation and no installation shall begin until the City has approved the plans, FRC and Foss have obtained all necessary permits, and FRC and Foss have complied with all applicable requirements, statutes, rules and regulations. All utilities shall be installed at a depth required by the City. All work shall be completed without cost to the City and without delay by qualified, licensed and bonded contractor( s), and, upon completion of such work the Crossing Area shall be restored to a condition that is fit and safe for public travel. At request of the City, FRC's and Foss's qualified contractor(s) shall post a bond(s) for the benefit of the City guaranteeing completion of repairs and restoration of the Crossing Area. Upon request of the City, FRC and Foss shall provide as-built drawings showing the exact location and depth of the utilities.

 3.2.2 Environmental Release. FRC and Foss hereby release the City from any and all claims, demands, obligations, causes of action and liability arising out of or that arise in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, from or in connection with the presence on, in or under the Crossing Area of any Hazardous Material encountered by FRC or Foss in connection with the installation of utilities within the Crossing Area. As used herein, the term "Hazardous Material" means any substance which is (i) designated, defined, classified or regulated as a hazardous substance, hazardous material, hazardous waste, pollutant or contaminant under any Environmental Law, as currently in effect or as hereafter amended or enacted, (ii) a petroleum hydrocarbon, including crude oil or any fraction thereof and all petroleum products, (iii) PCBS, (iv) lead, (v) asbestos, (vi) flammable explosives, (vii) infectious materials or (viii) radioactive materials; and the term "Environmental Law(s)" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. Sections 9601, etseq., the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 42 U.S. C. Sections 6901 etseq. , the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. Sections 2601 etseq., the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. 1801 etseq., the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. Sections 1251  etseq., the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99-499 and 99-563; the occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 651 etseq.; the Clear Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401 etseq.; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. section 1251 et seq.; the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. section 201 etseq.; the Hazardous Waste Cleanup Act (RCW 70.105.010, etseq.; the Model Toxics Control Act of the State of Washington (RCW 70.105D, etseq., as said laws have been supplemented or amended to date, the regulations promulgated pursuant to said laws and any other federal, state or local law, statute, rule, regulation or ordinance which regulates or proscribes the use, storage, disposal, presence, cleanup, transportation or release or threatened release into the environment of Hazardous Material.

 4. Maintenance and Repair. FRC and Foss shall maintain the Crossing in safe and clean condition, and shall repair or renew the surface pavement to keep the Crossing fit and safe for public travel, all at no cost to the City. Except in case of emergency or request of the City, prior to any maintenance, repair, alteration or any other work in or under the Crossing Area, FRC and Foss shall submit to plans for such maintenance, repair, alteration or other work and a detour plan with appropriate signage for the City's approval at least thirty (30) days prior to the date that FRC and Foss desire to begin work. All work shall be completed without delay by qualified, licensed and bonded contractor(s), and upon completion of such work the Crossing Area shall be fit and safe for public travel. At the request of the City, FRC's and Foss's qualified contractor(s) shall post a bond(s) for the benefit of the City guaranteeing completion of repairs and restoration of the Crossing Area.

 5. Use of Crossing Area. The City retains a continuing right to use the Crossing Area for any purpose that is not inconsistent with the grants contained in this Agreement, including use by the public for trail purposes. The City also retains the right to control traffic flow and traffic signage in connection with the Crossing. All persons using the Crossing for ingress to and egress from the FRC Property and the Foss Property will be required to stop and to yield to users of the Trail Property. FRC and Foss understand that at such time as the City improves the Trail Property, portions of the Crossing Area may need to be closed temporarily. The City agrees to use its best efforts to minimize inconvenience to users of the Crossing and, subject to FRC's and Foss's responsibility for certain costs related to grade and drainage changes, to repair any damage to pavement in the Crossing Area caused by the City.

 6. Indemnification. To the full extent permitted by applicable law, FRC and Foss, jointly and severally, agree on behalf of themselves and their heirs, successors and assigns to indemnify, defend and save harmless the City, its officers, employees, successors and assigns from any and all claims, demands, loss, damage, expense (including attorneys' fees), liens, charges and liability of every kind and description, including personal injury and death and for any damage to or loss of or destruction of property whatsoever arising from the exercise of any of the rights granted herein (including any exercise by the heirs, successors, assigns, employees, agents, contractors, licensees or invitees of either).

 FRC and Foss, jointly and severally, on behalf of themselves and their heirs, successors and assigns, specifically and expressly waive any immunity they or any of them may have under Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington to the extent necessary to provide the City, its successors and assigns, with a full and complete indemnity from claims made by employees of FRC or Foss or employees of their heirs, successors and assigns, and agree that such waiver of immunity was mutually negotiated by the parties.

 7. Insurance. FRC and Foss shall at all times, at their sole cost and expense, keep in full force and effect policies of commercial general liability insurance insuring against any and all claims or liability arising out of the rights or obligations set forth in this Agreement, in commercially reasonable amounts and with endorsements acceptable to the City's Risk Manager (provided the same are available at commercially reasonable rates), covering bodily injury, death and damage to property and the indemnification provisions set forth in  Section 6 above.

 8. Reactivation of Rail. In the event rail is reactivated in the area that includes the Crossing Area, the owners of the FRC Property and the Foss Property at the time shall be solely responsible for taking all measures necessary, required, or imposed by the railroad (or by a tribunal with jurisdiction) so as not to impair or unduly burden rail reactivation and rail service, and said owners shall indemnify, defend (at the election of the City) and hold the City harmless form all liability and costs, including attorneys' fees, in the event of any litigation involving the allocation of costs or allegations of impairment of rail use resulting from rail reactivation affecting the Crossing Area. The City shall in no event be liable to the owners of the FRC Property or the Foss Property for any claims relating to or arising out of rail reactivation, including without limitation its impact on the Crossing Area, and the owners of the FRC Property and the Foss Property shall indemnify, defend (at the election of the City) and hold harmless the City for any such claims, including for reasonable attorneys' fees in defending against such claims.

 9. Replaces and Supersedes BNSF/Foss Easement. This Crossing Easement Agreement replaces and supersedes in its entirety the BNSF/Foss Easement defined in Recital D. Upon the recordation of this Agreement, the BNSF/Foss Easement shall, without further act, deed or recordation of additional instruments, be deemed terminated as between the parties to this Agreement.

 10. Default; Remedies. In the event of a failure of a party to perform an obligation imposed upon that party, and such failure shall continue for a period of thirty (30) business days after receipt of a written notice given by the other party (or, if such failure is such that it cannot reasonably be performed within such thirty (30) business day period, then the failing party shall have a reasonable period to perform such obligation if the failing party has commenced the performance within such thirty (30) business day period and diligently pursues the same to completion) then the party who has failed to perform an obligation under this Agreement shall be in default. In the event of a default under this Agreement, the non- defaulting party shall have the right to seek any or all of its remedies under law or in equity, including, in case the non-defaulting party is the owner of the Trail Property, the remedy of terminating this Agreement.

 11. General Provisions.

 11.1 Controlling Law; Venue. The interpretation and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington. The venue for any action between the parties regarding the subject matter of this Agreement shall be in King County, Washington.

 11.2 Severability. If any provision of this Agreement, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is found to be invalid, the remainder of the provisions of this Agreement, or the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is found to be invalid, as the case may be, shall not be affected thereby.

 11.3 Entire Agreement. This instrument sets forth the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the Crossing and Utilities Easement and supersedes all prior discussions, negotiations, understandings, or agreements relating thereto, all of which are merged herein.

 11.4 Transfer or Termination of Rights and Obligations. Upon transfer or termination of a party's interest in all of the Crossing Area, the transferring or terminating party's rights and obligations under this Agreement terminate with respect to the Crossing Area, except that liability for acts or omissions occurring prior to transfer or termination shall survive such transfer or termination. FRC and Foss, their heirs, successors and assigns, shall give notice to the City of any transfer of interest in the Crossing Area no less than thirty (30) days prior to such transfer.

 11.5 Waiver. The waiver by any party of the breach of any term set forth herein shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same term or any other term.

 11.6 Captions. The captions in this Agreement have been inserted solely for convenience of reference and are not a part of this Agreement and shall have no effect upon construction or interpretation.

 11.7 Notice. Any notice or other communications given hereunder shall be deemed sufficient if in writing and delivered personally to the addressee, or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed as follows, or to such other address as may be designated by the addressee by written notice to the other parties:

 To the City: Director of Transportation

 The City of Seattle

 700 Fifth Avenue

 Suite 3900

 Seattle, WA 98104

 With a copy to: Seattle City Attorney's Office

 600 Fourth Avenue

 Fourth Floor

 P.O. Box 94769

 Seattle, WA 98124-4769

 To FRC: P.O. Box 94449

 Seattle, WA 98124

 Attention: Chief Executive Officer

 To Foss: 660 West Ewing Street

 Seattle, WA 98119-1587

 Attention: General Counsel

 11.8 Compliance with Laws. FRC and Foss shall at all times exercise the rights herein granted to either in compliance with all of the requirements of the statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations of all public authorities having jurisdiction and as those statutes, orders, rules and regulations are from time to time amended.

 11.9 Runs With the Land; Successors and Assigns. The rights and obligations set forth in this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon (i) the City, (ii) FRC and FRC's heirs, successors, assigns with respect to the FRC Property, and (iii) Foss and Foss' successors, assigns with respect to the Foss Property. The parties further agree that the easements, agreements and covenants set forth herein shall be considered servitudes that run with the land, and the rights and obligations of the parties shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon their respective heirs, successors and assigns. As used in this Agreement, the City means the City and its successors and assigns; FRC means FRC and its heirs, successors and assigns; and Foss means Foss and its successors and assigns.

 11.10 As Is. FRC and Foss, for themselves, their heirs, successors and assigns, accept the Crossing Area in "as is" condition.

 DATED this __ day of________________, 20__.

 CITY :

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE,

 a Washington municipal corporation

 By: _________________________________________

 Its: _________________________________________

 FRC:

 FRC/BN EWING STREET LLC,

 a Washington limited liability company

 By: _________________________________________

 Its: _________________________________________

 FOSS:

 FOSS MARITIME COMPANY,

 a Washington corporation

 By: _________________________________________

 Its: _________________________________________

 LIST OF EXHIBITS:

 Exhibit A - Legal Description of Trail Property

 Exhibit B-1 - Legal Description of FRC Property

 Exhibit B-2 - Legal Description of Foss Property

 Exhibit C - Legal Description of Crossing Area

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that  is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the  ________________________of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation, to be the free and voluntary act and deed of such municipal corporation for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Date:

 ______________________________________

 (seal or stamp) _______________________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at _______________________________

 My commission expires ____________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the  of_____________________, to me known to be managing member of FRC/BN EWING STREET LLC, a Washington limited liability company, to be the free and voluntary act and deed of such limited liability company for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Date:

 ______________________________________

 _______________________________________

 (seal or stamp) Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at ______________________________

 My commission expires ___________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that  is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the  _____________________of FOSS MARITIME COMPANY, a Washington corporation, to be the free and voluntary act and deed of such corporation for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Date:

 ______________________________________

 (seal or stamp) _______________________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at _______________________________

 My commission expires ____________________

 EXHIBIT A TO CROSSING EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF TRAIL PROPERTY

 That portion of the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company's original 100 foot wide Lake Union Line right-of-way (formerly Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company right-of-way) being 50.0 feet wide on each side of said Railway Company's Main Track Centerline, as originally located and constructed upon, over and across Government Lots 3 and 5 of Section 13, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, Willamette Meridian, in King County, Washington, lying between 2 lines drawn parallel or concentric with and distant, respectively, 9.0 feet northeasterly and 21 feet southwesterly of, as measured at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline; and bounded on the Southeast by a line drawn at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline and passing through a point distant 50 feet northwesterly, as measured along said Main Track Centerline, from the production south of the Centerline of 8th Avenue West (originally platted as Minor Street), as established in the plat of Ross Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 96, Records of King County, Washington, and bounded on the Northwest by the production south of the Centerline of Jesse Avenue West (originally platted as Jesse Street), as established by said plat of Ross Addition to the City of Seattle;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of said Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company's original 100 foot wide Lake Union Line right-of-way (formerly Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company right-of- way) being 50.0 feet wide on each side of said Railway Company's Main Track Centerline, as originally located and constructed upon, over and across said Government Lots 3 and 5 of said Section 13, lying between 2 lines drawn parallel or concentric with and distant, respectively, 9.0 feet northeasterly and 26 feet southwesterly of, as measured at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline; and bounded on the Southeast by said production south of the Centerline of Jesse Avenue West, and bounded on the Northeast by a line drawn at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline and passing through a point distant 165 feet northwesterly, as measured along said Main Track Centerline, from said production south of said Centerline of Jesse Avenue West;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Containing 27,289 Square Feet, More or Less

 That portion of the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company's original 100 foot wide Lake Union Line right-of-way (formerly Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company right-of-way) being 50.0 feet wide on each side of said Railway Company's Main Track Centerline, as originally located and constructed upon, over and across Government Lots 3 and 5 of Section 13, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, Willamette Meridian, in King County, Washington, lying between 2 lines drawn parallel or concentric with and distant, respectively, 8.5 feet southwesterly and 35 feet southwesterly of, as measured at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline; and bounded on the Southeast and on the Northwest by lines drawn at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline and passing through respective points distant 165 feet northwesterly, as measured along said Main Track Centerline, and 353 feet northwesterly, as measured along said Main Track Centerline, from the production south of the Centerline of Jesse Avenue West (originally platted as Jesse Street), as established in the plat of Ross Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 96, Records of King County, Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of said Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company's original 100 foot wide Lake Union Line right-of-way (formerly Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company right-of- way) being 50.0 feet wide on each side of said Railway Company's Main Track Centerline, as originally located and constructed upon, over and across said Government Lots 3 and 5 of said Section 13, lying between 2 lines drawn parallel or concentric with and distant, respectively, 8.5 feet southwesterly and 11.0 feet southwesterly of, as measured at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline; and bounded on the Southeast by a line drawn at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline and passing through a point distant 353 feet northwesterly, as measured along said Main Track Centerline, from the production south of said Centerline of Jesse Avenue West and bounded on the Northwest by the South margin of West Ewing Place, as said South margin was established by Ordinance 15923 of The City of Seattle;

 containing an area of 5,576 square feet, more or less;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 EXHIBIT B-1 TO CROSSING EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF FRC PROPERTY

 PARCEL A

 THE NORTHEASTERLY 40.0 FEET OF THE BURLINGTON NORTHERN AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY'S ORIGINAL 100 FOOT WIDE LAKE UNION LINE RIGHT-OF-WAY (FORMERLY SEATTLE, LAKE SHORE AND EASTERN RAILWAY COMPANY RIGHT-OF- WAY), BEING 50.0 FEET WIDE ON EACH SIDE OF SAID RAILWAY COMPANY'S MAIN TRACK CENTERLINE, AS ORIGINALLY LOCATED AND CONSTRUCTED UPON, OVER AND ACROSS GOVERNMENT LOTS 3 AND 5 AND THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 13, TOWNSHIP 25 NORTH, RANGE 3 EAST, WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON; LYING BETWEEN 2 LINES DRAWN PARALLEL OR CONCENTRIC WITH AND DISTANT, RESPECTIVELY, 10.0 FEET AND 50.0 FEET NORTHEASTERLY, AS MEASURED AT RIGHT ANGLES OR RADIAL FROM SAID MAIN TRACK CENTERLINE; AND BOUNDED ON THE NORTHWEST BY A LINE DRAWN PARALLEL WITH AND DISTANT 50.0 FEET WESTERLY OF THE NORTHEASTERLY PROLONGATION OF THE NORTHWESTERLY MARGIN OF EIGHTH AVENUE WEST, ACCORDING TO THE RECORDED PLAT OF ROSS SECOND ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE, RECORDED IN VOLUME 2 OF PLATS, PAGE 140; AND BOUNDED ON THE SOUTHEAST A BY A LINE THAT IS PARALLEL WITH AND DISTANT 16.0 FEET NORTHWESTERLY, AS MEASURED AT RIGHT ANGLES FROM THE SOUTHWESTERLY PROLONGATION OF THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF LOT 25, BLOCK 22 ACCORDING TO THE RECORDED PLAT OF ROSS ADDITION TO SEATTLE, RECORDED IN VOLUME 2 OF PLATS, PAGE 96;

 TOGETHER WITH THE NORTHEASTERLY 41.0 FEET OF THE BURLINGTON NORTHERN AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY'S ORIGINAL 100 FOOT WIDE LAKE UNION LINE RIGHT-OF-WAY (FORMERLY SEATTLE, LAKE SHORE AND EASTERN RAILWAY COMPANY RIGHT-OF-WAY), BEING 50.0 FEET WIDE ON EACH SIDE OF SAID RAILWAY COMPANY'S MAIN TRACK CENTERLINE, AS ORIGINALLY LOCATED AND CONSTRUCTED UPON, OVER AND ACROSS GOVERNMENT LOTS 3 AND 5 AND THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 13, TOWNSHIP 25 NORTH, RANGE 3 EAST, WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, LYING BETWEEN 2 LINES DRAWN PARALLEL OR CONCENTRIC WITH AND DISTANT, RESPECTIVELY, 9.0 FEET AND 50.0 FEET NORTHEASTERLY, AS MEASURED AT RIGHT ANGLES OR RADIAL FROM SAID MAIN TRACK CENTERLINE; AND BOUNDED ON THE SOUTHEAST BY A LINE DRAWN PARALLEL WITH AND DISTANT 50.0 FEET WESTERLY OF THE NORTHEASTERLY PROLONGATION OF THE NORTHWESTERLY MARGIN OF EIGHTH AVENUE WEST, ACCORDING TO THE RECORDED PLAT OF ROSS SECOND ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE, RECORDED IN VOLUME 2 OF PLATS, PAGE 140; AND BOUNDED ON THE NORTHWEST BY THE SOUTHERLY MARGIN OF WEST EWING PLACE AS ESTABLISHED PURSUANT TO CITY OF SEATTLE ORDINANCE NO. 15923.

 CONTAINING 63,479 SQUARE FEET, MORE OR LESS.

 EXHIBIT B-1 (ct'd)

 Description of FRC Property

 PARCEL B

 THE NORTHEASTERLY 24.0 FEET OF THE SOUTHWESTERLY 39.0 FEET OF THE BURLINGTON NORTHERN AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY'S ORIGINAL 100 FOOT WIDE LAKE UNION LINE RIGHT-OF-WAY (FORMERLY SEATTLE, LAKE SHORE AND EASTERN RAILWAY COMPANY RIGHT-OF-WAY), BEING 50.0 FEET WIDE ON EACH SIDE OF SAID RAILWAY COMPANY'S MAIN TRACK CENTERLINE, AS ORIGINALLY LOCATED AND CONSTRUCTED UPON, OVER AND ACROSS GOVERNMENT LOTS 3 AND 5 AND THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 13, TOWNSHIP 25 NORTH, RANGE 3 EAST, WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, LYING BETWEEN 2 LINES DRAWN PARALLEL OR CONCENTRIC WITH AND DISTANT RESPECTIVELY, 11.0 FEET AND 35.0 FEET SOUTHWESTERLY, AS MEASURED AT RIGHT ANGLES OR RADIAL FROM SAID MAIN TRACK CENTERLINE, AND BOUNDED ON THE NORTHWEST BY A LINE DRAWN PARALLEL WITH AND DISTANT 50.0 FEET WESTERLY OF THE PRODUCTION NORTHEASTERLY OF THE NORTHWESTERLY MARGIN OF EIGHTH AVENUE WEST, ACCORDING TO THE RECORDED PLAT OF ROSS SECOND ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE, RECORDED IN VOLUME 2 OF PLATS, PAGE 140, AND BOUNDED ON THE SOUTHEAST BY A LINE THAT IS PARALLEL OR CONCENTRIC WITH AND DISTANT 16.0 FEET NORTHWESTERLY, AS MEASURED AT RIGHT ANGLES OR RADIAL FROM THE SOUTHWESTERLY PROLONGATION OF THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF LOT 25, BLOCK 22 ACCORDING TO THE RECORDED PLAT OF ROSS ADDITION TO SEATTLE, RECORDED IN VOLUME 2 OF PLATS, PAGE 96;

 TOGETHER WITH THE NORTHEASTERLY 14.0 FEET OF THE SOUTHWESTERLY 29.0 FEET OF THE BURLINGTON NORTHERN AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY'S ORIGINAL 100 FOOT WIDE LAKE UNION LINE RIGHT-OF-WAY, (FORMERLY SEATTLE, LAKE SHORE AND EASTERN RAILWAY COMPANY RIGHT-OF-WAY), BEING 50.0 FEET WIDE ON EACH SIDE OF SAID RAILWAY COMPANY'S MAIN TRACK CENTERLINE, AS ORIGINALLY LOCATED AND CONSTRUCTED UPON, OVER AND ACROSS GOVERNMENT LOTS 3 AND 5 AND THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 13, TOWNSHIP 25 NORTH, RANGE 3 EAST, WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, LYING BETWEEN 2 LINES DRAWN PARALLEL OR CONCENTRIC WITH AND DISTANT, RESPECTIVELY, 21.0 FEET AND 35.0 FEET SOUTHWESTERLY, AND MEASURED AT RIGHT ANGLES OR RADIAL FROM SAID MAIN TRACK CENTERLINE, AND BOUNDED ON THE NORTHWEST BY THE PRODUCTION NORTHEASTERLY OF THE CENTERLINE OF JESSE AVENUE WEST, ACCORDING TO THE RECORDED PLAT OF ROSS SECOND ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE, RECORDED IN VOLUME 2 OF PLATS, PAGE 140, AND BOUNDED ON THE SOUTHEAST BY A LINE DRAWN PARALLEL WITH AND DISTANT 50.0 FEET WESTERLY OF THE PRODUCTION NORTHEASTERLY OF THE NORTHWESTERLY MARGIN OF EIGHTH AVENUE WEST, ACCORDING TO SAID PLAT OF ROSS SECOND ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE.

 CONTAINING 18,848 SQUARE FEET, MORE OR LESS.

 EXHIBIT B-2 TO CROSSING EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF FOSS MARITIME COMPANY PROPERTY

 Lots 7 through 14 in Block 14, TOGETHER WITH those portions of vacated West Brawley Street, West Blewett Street and Jesse Avenue North adjoining, which upon vacation, attached to said property by operation of law;

 EXCEPT that a portion of said Lot 14 lying Northwesterly of a line extended from the most Easterly corner of said Lot 14 to the most Westerly corner thereof;

 Lots 1 through 29 in Block 15, TOGETHER WITH those portions of vacated West Brawley Street, Jesse Avenue North and Eight Avenue West adjoining, which upon vacation, attached to said property by operation of law;

 Lots 1 through 13 in Block 16, TOGETHER WITH those portions of vacated West Brawley Street, Jesse Avenue North and Eighth Avenue West adjoining, which upon vacation, attached to said property by operation of law;

 Except that portion thereof condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 91942 for canal right-of-way;

 Lots 1 through 14 in Block 17, TOGETHER WITH that portion of vacated West Brawley Street and Eighth Avenue West adjoining, which upon vacation, attached to said property by operation of law;

 Lots 1 through 12 in Block 18, TOGETHER WITH that portion of vacated West Brawley Street and Eighth Avenue West adjoining, which upon vacation, attached to said property by operation of law;

 Except that portion thereof condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 21942 for canal right-of-way;

 Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32 in Block 22, TOGETHER WITH that portion of vacated West Blewett Street, West Ewing Street and Eighth Avenue West adjoining, which upon vacation, attached to said property by operation of law.

 Lots 1 through 32 in Block 23, TOGETHER WITH those portions of vacated West Blewett Street, West Ewing Street, Jesse Avenue North, and Eighth Avenue West adjoining, which upon vacation, attached to said property by operation of law;

 Lots 12 through 25 in Block 24, TOGETHER WITH those portions of West Blewett Street, West Ewing Street and Jesse Avenue North adjoining, which upon vacation, attached to said property by operation of law;

 ALL in Ross Addition to the City of Seattle, as per plat recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, Page 96, records of King County;

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 EXHIBIT C TO CROSSING EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF CROSSING AREA

 40-FOOT EASEMENT NORTHWEST OF JESSE AVENUE WEST

 That portion of The Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company's Original 100 foot wide Lake Union Line right-of-way (formerly Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company right-of-way) being 50.0 feet wide on each side of said Railway Company's Main Track centerline, as originally located and constructed upon over and across Government Lots 3 and 5 of Section 13, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, Willamette Meridian, in King County, Washington, lying between 2 lines drawn parallel with and distant, respectively, 9.0 feet Northeasterly and 35 feet Southwesterly of, as measured at right angles from said Main Track centerline, and bounded on the Northwest by a line drawn at right angles from said Main Track centerline and passing through a point distant 165 feet Northwesterly, as measured along said Main Track centerline, from the Northerly production of the centerline of Jesse Avenue West, as established in the Plat of Ross Second Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the Plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, Page 140, Records of King County, Washington, and bounded on the Southeast by a line drawn at right angles from said Main Track centerline and passing through a point distant 125 feet Northwesterly, as measured along said Main Track centerline, from the Northerly production of the centerline of said Jesse Avenue West

 Containing 1,760 square feet, more or less

 50-FOOT EASEMENT SOUTHEAST OF JESSE AVENUE WEST

 That portion of The Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company's Original 100 foot wide Lake Union Line right-of-way (formerly Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company right-of-way) being 50.0 feet wide on each side of said Railway Company's Main Track centerline, as originally located and constructed upon over and across Government Lots 3 and 5 of Section 13, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, Willamette Meridian, in King County, Washington, lying between 2 lines drawn parallel with and distant, respectively, 9.0 feet Northeasterly and 21 feet Southwesterly of, as measured at right angles from said Main Track centerline, and bounded on the Southeast by a line drawn at right angles from said Main Track centerline and passing through a point distant 297 feet Southeasterly, as measured along said Main Track centerline, from the Northerly production of the centerline of Jesse Avenue West, as established in the Plat of Ross Second Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the Plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, Page 140, Records of King County, Washington, and bounded on the Northwest by a line drawn at right angles from said Main Track centerline and passing through a point distant 247 feet Southeasterly, as measured along said Main Track centerline, from the Northerly production of the centerline of said Jesse Avenue West

 Containing 1,500 square feet, more or less

 15

 ATTACHMENT 6

 ATTACHMENT 6

 AFTER RECORDING RETURN TO:

 Seattle Department of Transportation

 Capital Projects

 Attention: Stuart Goldsmith

 700 5th Avenue

 Key Tower, Suite 3900

 Seattle, Washington 98104-5043

 Document Title: Quitclaim Deed

 Grantor: Foss Maritime Company

 FRC/BN Ewing Street LLC

 Grantee: The City of Seattle

 Legal Description:

 Abbreviated Legal Description: Portions of Government Lots 3 and 5 of Section 13, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, W.M in King County, Washington

 Additional Legal Description: Exhibit A to this document

 Assessor's Tax Parcel Nos.: ________________________________

 Reference Nos. of Documents Released or Assigned: N/A

 QUITCLAIM DEED

 The Grantors, Foss Maritime Company, a Washington corporation, and FRC/BN Ewing Street LLC, a Washington limited liability company, for and in consideration of clearing title, hereby convey and quitclaim to The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation, all of their right, title and interest, if any, by whatever means created, in and to the real property described in attached Exhibit A, located in King County, Washington, together with all after acquired title of the Grantors therein, SUBJECT, HOWEVER, to that certain Crossing Easement Agreement recorded under King County recording number ________________________, and the right to use and maintain (consistent with the use and maintenance provisions of the Crossing Easement Agreement) all utility facilities (such as water, side sewer, gas, electrical and telephone lines) existing as of November 4, 2002 that benefit the real property described in Exhibits B-1 and B-2 to the Crossing Easement Agreement.

 Dated: ________________, 200_

 GRANTORS:

 Foss Maritime Company FRC/BN Ewing Street LLC

 By:______________________________ By:________________________

 _______________________________ ________________________

 Print Name Print Name

 Its:_______________________________ Its:_________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ______, 200_, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared __________________, to me known to be (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) the _____________________ of Foss Maritime Company, a Washington corporation, the Washington corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that __ is authorized to execute the said instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunder set my hand and official seal day and year first above written.

 ____________________________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington

 Residing at ___________________________________

 My commission expires: ________________________

 _____________________________________________

 PRINT NAME

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ______, 200_, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared __________________, to me known to be (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) the _____________________ of FRC/BN Ewing Street LLC, a Washington limited liability company, the Washington limited liability company that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said limited liability company for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that __ is authorized to execute the said instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunder set my hand and official seal day and year first above written.

 ____________________________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington

 Residing at ___________________________________

 My commission expires: ________________________

 _____________________________________________

 PRINT NAME

 EXHIBIT A

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION

 Description of Trail Property (Phase 2)

 That portion of the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company's original 100 foot wide Lake Union Line right-of-way (formerly Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company right-of-way) being 50.0 feet wide on each side of said Railway Company's Main Track Centerline, as originally located and constructed upon, over and across Government Lots 3 and 5 of Section 13, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, Willamette Meridian, in King County, Washington, lying between 2 lines drawn parallel or concentric with and distant, respectively, 9.0 feet northeasterly and 21 feet southwesterly of, as measured at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline; and bounded on the Southeast by a line drawn at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline and passing through a point distant 50 feet northwesterly, as measured along said Main Track Centerline, from the production south of the Centerline of 8th Avenue West (originally platted as Minor Street), as established in the plat of Ross Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 96, Records of King County, Washington, and bounded on the Northwest by the production south of the Centerline of Jesse Avenue West (originally platted as Jesse Street), as established by said plat of Ross Addition to the City of Seattle;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of said Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company's original 100 foot wide Lake Union Line right-of-way (formerly Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company right-of- way) being 50.0 feet wide on each side of said Railway Company's Main Track Centerline, as originally located and constructed upon, over and across said Government Lots 3 and 5 of said Section 13, lying between 2 lines drawn parallel or concentric with and distant, respectively, 9.0 feet northeasterly and 26 feet southwesterly of, as measured at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline; and bounded on the Southeast by said production south of the Centerline of Jesse Avenue West, and bounded on the Northeast by a line drawn at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline and passing through a point distant 165 feet northwesterly, as measured along said Main Track Centerline, from said production south of said Centerline of Jesse Avenue West;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Containing 27,289 Square Feet, More or Less

 That portion of the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company's original 100 foot wide Lake Union Line right-of-way (formerly Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company right-of-way) being 50.0 feet wide on each side of said Railway Company's Main Track Centerline, as originally located and constructed upon, over and across Government Lots 3 and 5 of Section 13, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, Willamette Meridian, in King County, Washington, lying between 2 lines drawn parallel or concentric with and distant, respectively, 8.5 feet southwesterly and 35 feet southwesterly of, as measured at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline; and bounded on the Southeast and on the Northwest by lines drawn at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline and passing through respective points distant 165 feet northwesterly, as measured along said Main Track Centerline, and 353 feet northwesterly, as measured along said Main Track Centerline, from the production south of the Centerline of Jesse Avenue West (originally platted as Jesse Street), as established in the plat of Ross Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 96, Records of King County, Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of said Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company's original 100 foot wide Lake Union Line right-of-way (formerly Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway Company right-of- way) being 50.0 feet wide on each side of said Railway Company's Main Track Centerline, as originally located and constructed upon, over and across said Government Lots 3 and 5 of said Section 13, lying between 2 lines drawn parallel or concentric with and distant, respectively, 8.5 feet southwesterly and 11.0 feet southwesterly of, as measured at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline; and bounded on the Southeast by a line drawn at right angles or radially from said Main Track Centerline and passing through a point distant 353 feet northwesterly, as measured along said Main Track Centerline, from the production south of said Centerline of Jesse Avenue West and bounded on the Northwest by the South margin of West Ewing Place, as said South margin was established by Ordinance 15923 of The City of Seattle;

 containing an area of 5,576 square feet, more or less;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 4

 ATTACHMENT 7

 ATTACHMENT 7

```
