

********

**Council Bill Number: 115213**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121776**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the execution of a five (5) year concession agreement with one five (5) year option, with Healthfit Distribution, Inc. to provide food and beverage services at Green Lake Park.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 11, 2005
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 19, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 18, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 28, 2005
   
**Committee:** Parks, Neighborhoods & Education
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** GREEN-LAKE, GREEN-LAKE-PARK, EATING-AND-DRINKING-PLACES, CONTRACTS, LEASES

**Fiscal Note:**115213

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the execution of a five (5) year concession agreement with one five (5) year option, with Healthfit Distribution, Inc. to provide food and beverage services at Green Lake Park.

 WHEREAS, the provision for food and beverage service at Green Lake Park has been a popular feature for many years; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Parks and Recreation (hereinafter "Department") desires to continue food and beverage services using a long-term operator for such services; and

 WHEREAS, in 2004, the Department publicly advertised and completed an Invitation To Bid (ITB) for a concessionaire; and

 WHEREAS, Healthfit Distribution, Inc. submitted a bid that was evaluated and found to be fully responsive to the ITB and most advantageous to the City; and

 WHEREAS, the Department wishes to execute and finalize a concession agreement with Healthfit Distribution, Inc.; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, or his designee, is hereby authorized on behalf of the City of Seattle to execute a five (5) year concession agreement, substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto as Attachment 1 to this ordinance, with Healthfit Distribution, Inc. This agreement also provides for a five (5) year extension at the parties' option.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Green Lake Park Food Concessionaire Agreement

 Exhibit A to Attachment 1: Green Lake Food Concessionaire Map

 Barry Firth

 DPR Green Lake Food ORD.doc

 1/4/05

 version # 2

 1

 Attachment 1

 to

 DPR Green Lake Food Ordinance

 GREEN LAKE PARK

 FOOD CONCESSIONAIRE AGREEMENT

 THIS CONCESSION AGREEMENT is entered into this day of , 2005 between The City of Seattle, (the "City"), and Healthfit Distribution, Inc. ("Concessionaire").

 1. GRANT OF CONCESSION.

 The City hereby grants to Concessionaire a non-exclusive right to sell food, snacks, refreshments and limited retail items at Green Lake Park, subject to the terms of this Agreement. The City shall act through its Superintendent of Parks and Recreation (Superintendent) or his designee in the management of this Agreement.

 2. TERM OF AGREEMENT.

 a. Initial Term. The term of this Agreement shall be five (5) years, commencing June 1, 2005 and expiring May 31, 2010.

 b. Extension of Term. The term of this concession right may be extended for an additional five (5) year period after the initial term, provided that: not sooner than nine (9) months nor later than six (6) months prior to the expiration of the initial term, the Concessionaire furnishes written notice of intent to extend to the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle; and Concessionaire is not then in default in any term of this Agreement and the parties have executed a new Concession Agreement upon terms mutually agreed upon.

 3. PREMISES, EQUIPMENT.

 a. Concession Premises. The Concessionaire shall conduct its operations at the location within the City's Green Lake Park (the "Park"), identified as the "Concession Premises" on the diagram attached as Exhibit A. The use of the Concession Premises is on a non-exclusive basis and the location of the premises may be changed by direction of the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or his designee, upon 60 days written notice.

 i. The provision of the Concession Premises is on an "as is, where-is" basis. Concessionaire shall be responsible for equipping the Concession Premises with any equipment, materials or supplies necessary to provide the Concession services contemplated under this Agreement. The City makes no warranty or representation to Concessionaire about the suitability of the Premises for the intended use, nor as to any condition of any equipment located therein.

 ii. All Concessionaire supplied equipment shall be installed in accordance with applicable building, health and safety rules. Any such installation which requires affixing the equipment within or upon the Concession Premises by means which penetrate or permanently adhere to any surface, shall be done only upon the written consent of the Department of Parks and Recreation (Department).

 iii. The Concessionaire shall at all times keep the Concession Premises interior and exterior and all equipment in a clean and tidy condition and in good repair and operating condition, observing all relevant health regulations pertaining to food handling.

 b. Storage. The Department shall permit the Concessionaire to place a storage container on the Department's property throughout the term of this Agreement. The cost of placing and removing the container along with the container's purchase price and the lease expense or rental cost shall be at the sole expense of the Concessionaire. The placement location and the acceptance of the appearance of the container shall be at the sole discretion of the Department.

 c. Vending Carts. The Concessionaire may also request additional concession sales locations within the park for the placement of concession carts. The size, type and location of all such carts is subject to the written approval of Superintendent which approval may be revoked, altered or amended at any time. The operation of any such concession cart shall conform to the provisions applicable to the Concession Premises and to such additional rules or regulations as the Superintendent may prescribe. The Department will not provide electricity, water or trash removal services at any of the vending cart locations.

 d. Locks and keys. Locks and keys for bollards and gates shall be provided by the Department. The Concessionaire shall not remove or replace locks provided by the Department. The Concessionaire shall pay a $50.00 (Fifty dollar) refundable deposit for each key provided by the Department.

 e. Trash receptacles. The Concessionaire shall furnish at least two 40 gallon trash receptacles for use by Concessionaire's customers at the Concession Premises and shall equip any Vending Cart with a suitable receptacle. Each such receptacle shall be lined with a trash bag of suitable strength, which lining shall be changed each time the receptacle is emptied. Trash receptacles shall be emptied and relined by Concessionaire whenever they are full and at the close of each business day. The receptacles shall only be emptied into the trash dumpster provided by the Department. Concessionaire shall refrain from emptying any materials such as kitchen grease, any toxic or environmentally hazardous material into the trash receptacles or dumpster.

 f. Pest control. Concessionaire shall provide at its own expense a pest control program performed by a licensed pest control service.

 g. Signs. The Concessionaire shall obtain the Department's prior approval for all signs, posters and displays to be used on the Premises.

 h. Installation and removal of equipment. The Concessionaire shall install equipment which requires mounting or affixing to the Premises, only by means and in locations previously approved by the Department. All installations shall be done in an attractive and appropriate manner consistent with Department standards. All mounting holes or other damage to the premises caused by the installation shall be repaired when the equipment is removed by the Concessionaire to the satisfaction of the Department.

 4. SCHEDULE OF OPERATION AND STAFFING.

 a. Schedule of operation. The minimum hours of operation shall be as mutually agreed and established in writing. The dates and times of operation may be modified from time to time by mutual agreement of the parties hereto. Concessionaire activities restricted solely to maintenance, provisioning and management function shall not constitute operation for purposes of this Agreement.

 i. The Concessionaire shall submit to the office of the Superintendent for approval, via the Manager of Magnuson Park and Business Resources at the address indicated in Section 6 (e) of this agreement, written schedule of hours during which the Concession Premises shall be operated.

 ii. The schedule may be changed by mutual agreement upon 30 days written notice.

 b. Staffing.

 i. During hours of operation, Concessionaire shall staff the Concession Premises with sufficient staff, meeting all health rules and regulations requisite to food vending, to meet customer demand.

 ii. Every person employed by Concessionaire to work in the Park shall first be subject to a criminal background check by the Department. Concessionaire shall furnish to the Manager of Magnuson Park and Business Resources, the name and all other identifying data requested by the Department and only upon receipt of written authorization from the Department shall that person be permitted to work within the Park. The Department reserves the right to withdraw at any time and for any reason, its authorization as to any employee.

 iii When the Department requires Concessionaire's employees to wear identification, the Concessionaire's employees shall at all times while in the Park, wear identifying clothing and photo identification name tags containing the full legal name (no nicknames) of the employee.

 iv. The Concessionaire and its employees shall obtain any required health department permits.

 5. PRICES, PORTIONS, MENUS.

 The prices charged, food portions and menus shall be as set forth in Concessionaires Bid and shall not be changed without the written consent of the Superintendent of the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation (Department). The Concessionaire may make a written request for adjustment to the Department, not more than two times in any calendar year. The Concessionaire shall document the need for each such change and the Department reserves the right to reject any or all portions of the Concessionaire's request for adjustments. Concessionaire acknowledges that it is a condition of this Agreement that Concessionaire offer, foster and support healthy menu choices.

 6. RECORD KEEPING AND CONCESSION FEE.

 a. Recordkeeping. Concessionaire shall keep accurate records of all sales of food or merchandise at Green Lake Park.

 i. All sales made at the Concession Premises shall be recorded on a cash register which creates a printed record tape of each transaction. Concessionaire shall be responsible for providing said cash register and maintaining the same in good repair throughout the term of this agreement.

 ii. Sales made at vending carts shall be recorded on a written daily sales summary. There shall be a separate daily sales summary for each vending cart.

 iii. Prior to the opening of business each day, the Concessionaire shall prepare a daily sales summary for the sales transactions of the preceding business day on forms provided by the Manager of Magnuson Park and Business Resources of the Department, a copy of which completed forms shall be furnished to the City together with the payment of the Concession Fee.

 iv. Concessionaire shall maintain a copy of each printed cash register record tape and each daily sales summary throughout the term of this Agreement and any extension hereof and shall make the same available to the City upon request.

 b. Annual concession fee. Concessionaire shall pay to the City the greater of $20,000.00 ($1,666.00 per month), or 23.1% of annual gross concession sales as the Annual Concession Fee.

 i. The Annual Concession Fee shall be paid in monthly installments, due on or before the 15th day of the succeeding month.

 ii. The Minimum Annual Concession Fee paid to the City for partial years of operation shall be the greater of $1,666.00 per month for each month of Concessionaire operation at the Park, or the gross annual sales for that partial calendar year multiplied by 23.1%.

 iii. The Concessionaire shall pay the greater amount of the Minimum Annual Concession Fee on or before 30 days from the date on which Concessionaire ceased to operate the concession or, 30 days after the end of the calendar year, whichever is sooner[V1].

 iv. Washington State Leasehold Tax is not included in the Minimum

 Annual Concession fee and is due over and above Minimum Annual Concession Fee.

 v. If any payment is not paid to the Department within ten (10) days after the date due, an administrative late charge of $25.00 (Twenty-five dollars) plus 1% of the Concession Fee payment amount shall be added to the payment due and the total sum shall become immediately due and payable. An additional administrative late fee of $25.00 and an interest charge of 1% shall be added each month that the Concession Fee remains unpaid.

 c. Concession report. The Concessionaire shall complete and send to the Department a Concessions Report in accordance with operating periods and due dates as herein. The Concessions Report will be on a form provided by the Manager of Magnuson Park and Business Resources of the Department and will contain daily sales data, concession fee calculations and a calculation of Washington State Leasehold Excise Taxes. This Concessions Report may be modified from time to time by the Department.

 d. Taxes. Concessionaire is responsible for all applicable taxes, including sales and leasehold taxes. Any taxes paid by Concessionaire shall not count toward the Concession Fee owing under the terms of this Agreement. Concessionaire is responsible for establishing requisite business account or taxpayer numbers with all applicable taxing authorities and shall keep complete tax records regarding its operation of the Concession and shall make the same available for inspection and copying by the City upon request.

 e. Payment location. All Concession Fee payments or other payments due, including applicable Washington State Leasehold Tax, and reports required under this Agreement, shall be paid to the Department at:

 By mail: Hand delivered:

 The City of Seattle The City of Seattle

 Dept. of Parks & Recreation Dept. of Parks and Recreation

 Magnuson Park & Business Resources Magnuson Park & Business Resources Office Office

 Attention: Concessions Coordinator Attention: Concessions Coordinator

 6310 NE 74th Street, #109E 6310 NE 74th Street, #109E

 Seattle, WA 98115 Seattle, WA 98115

 7. INSURANCE.

 a. Required Insurance Coverages and Limits of Liability. Prior to the commencement of use of the Concession Premises pursuant to this Agreement, the Concessionaire shall deliver to the Department insurance as described below:

 i. Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance including:

 - Premises/Operations,

 - Products/Completed Operations,

 - Personal/Advertising Injury,

 - Contractual

 - Fire/Tenant Legal

 - Independent Contractors, and

 - Stop Gap/Employers Liability.

 Such insurance must provide the following minimum limits of liability:

 $1,000,000 each occurrence Combined Single Limit (CSL) Bodily Injury (BI) and Property Damage (PD) except:

 $1,000,000 each offense Personal/Advertising Injury

 $ 100,000 each occurrence Fire/Tenant Legal

 $1,000,000 each accident/disease Stop Gap/Employers Liability

 ii. Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for owned, or non-owned leased or hired vehicles with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 each occurrence CSL BI and PD.

 iii. Worker's Compensation insurance to comply with all applicable workers' compensation, occupational disease, and occupational health and safety laws, statutes, and regulations to the full extent applicable. Such workers' compensation and occupational disease requirements shall include coverage for all employees suffering bodily injury (including death) by accident or disease that arises out of or in the connection with the performance of this Agreement.

 b. City as Additional Insured. The City shall be included as an additional insured for primary and noncontributory limits on CGL and Business Automobile Liability insurance subject to a standard separation of insureds/severability of interests clause.

 c. Maintenance of Insurance. Insurance must be maintained in full force and effect, at no expense to the City, throughout the entire period of the Agreement.

 d. Deductibles or Self-Insured Retentions. Deductibles or self- insured retentions in excess of $1,000 must be disclosed and is subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager.

 e. Approval of Insurance. All policies shall be subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager as to insurer, which must be rated A-VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines broker.

 f. Evidence of Insurance. The following documents and verbiage must be provided to the City as evidence of insurance coverage:

 i. A copy of the policy's declarations pages, showing the policy period, coverages and limits of liability.

 ii. A copy of the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements.

 iii. A copy of the CGL insurance policy endorsement or blanket additional insured policy wording adding the City of Seattle as an Additional Insured..

 iv. A copy of the policy provision that provides that coverage for the City of Seattle shall not be cancelled without at least thirty (30) days prior written notice to the City (except 10 days with respect to cancellation for nonpayment of premium) or as may otherwise be required by RCW 48.18.290.

 8. PERFORMANCE BOND.

 The Concessionaire shall furnish to the Department a performance bond in the amount of $1,000.00 or shall make a $1,000.00 cash deposit by cashier's check. The deposit or bond shall remain in effect throughout the term of this contract and will not be released by the Department until the Concessionaire has satisfactorily discharged all duties, responsibilities and performances under the Agreement. Should the Concessionaire fail to fulfill its obligations contained in this Agreement, then the Department may retain the bond or deposit. The retention of the bond or deposit does not limit the Concessionaire's responsibilities for default nor does the retention of the same limit the Department's right of recovery against the Concessionaire.

 9. EXPIRATION AND TERMINATION WITHOUT CAUSE.

 a. Termination at Expiration of Term. This Agreement shall terminate upon the expiration of the term hereof, or as extended as provided above.

 b. Unilateral Termination. Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving the other party not less than thirty (30) days written notice of its intention to terminate and specifying the termination date. In such event, Concessionaire shall surrender the premises to the Superintendent on or before the expiration of the specified termination date.

 c. Surrender of Premises. Upon termination, either at expiration of this Agreement or any extension thereof, or upon unilateral termination as provided in Section 4 (a) above, the Concessionaire shall surrender the Concession Premises in a broom clean condition, and return all keys to the Superintendent.

 10. TERMINATION FOR CAUSE.

 The City, by written notice, may terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, for failure of the Concessionaire to perform any provision of this Agreement or any failure of Concessionaire to conform to any health regulation. Such notice shall describe the default, and shall provide a deadline for cure of not less than thirty (30) calendar days, unless the default also involves a health violation as determined by the Seattle King County Department of Health, in which case the City may in the interest of public safety, terminate this Agreement outright, or, in its discretion, specify a shorter period of cure. The City may elect to unilaterally extend any default cure period if in the sole discretion of the Superintendent, the Concessionaire is making suitable progress in curing any default and public health and safety are not at risk.

 a. Upon expiration of the default notice period and any specified default then remains unremedied, this Agreement shall terminate without further notice and all rights of the Concessionaire in the Concession Premises shall cease. Concessionaire shall forthwith remove all Concessionaire owned materials from the Concession Premises and surrender the premises to the City.

 b. Concessionaire shall not remove any equipment which has become affixed as described in Section 3 (h) above, without written permission from the Superintendent.

 c. The City's acceptance of Concessionaire's payment or services for any period or periods after a default by the Concessionaire hereunder shall not be deemed a waiver of such default unless the City so advises the Concessionaire in writing. No waiver by the City of any Concessionaire default hereunder shall be construed to be or act as a waiver of any subsequent default by the Concessionaire.

 d. The City's waiver or non-enforcement of any default by Concessionaire shall not be construed as a waiver or acquiescence of any future default by Concessionaire.

 11. OBLIGATION TO REMOVE EQUIPMENT.

 At the termination of this Agreement, whether by expiration, unilateral termination or for cause, the Concessionaire has not removed its equipment, property and fixtures within the time provided, the Department may at its sole election remove and place the same in storage, all at the expense and risk of the Concessionaire. The Concessionaire shall reimburse the Department for any expense incurred by the Department in connection with such removal and storage. The Department shall have the right to sell such stored property, without notice to Concessionaire, after it has been stored for a period of thirty (30) days or more, the proceeds of such sale to be applied first, to the cost of sale; second, to the payment of the charges for storage; and third, to the payment of any other amounts which may then be due from the Concessionaire to the Department; the balance, if any, shall be paid to the Concessionaire. The Department shall not be responsible for any loss occasioned by spoilage.

 12. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.

 This Agreement and Exhibits contains all the terms and conditions agreed upon by the parties. All items incorporated by reference are attached. No other understandings, oral or otherwise may modify the text or an attachment to this Agreement.

 13. NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT.

 The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 14. BINDING EFFECT.

 This Agreement shall be subject to the written approval of the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation and shall not be binding until so approved.

 15. LICENSES.

 The Concessionaire shall keep all licenses and permits current throughout the term of this Agreement and when so requested by the Department shall supply copies of these licenses to the Department at the address shown in this Agreement.

 16. INDEMNIFICATION.

 The Concessionaire shall indemnify and hold the City, its departments and employees harmless from liability from any and all claims, demands, losses, and any death, injury or disability of any person and/or damage to any property or business occurring on or about the Concession Premises during the Concessionaire's use and occupancy thereof or arising, directly or indirectly, out of or suffered by any person by reason of or in connection with any action, error, or omission of the Concessionaire or any of its officers, employees or contractors or sub-concessionaires.

 a. In the event of suit against the City arising out of Concessionaire's activities, Concessionaire shall appear and defend the same at its sole expense. In the event judgment is rendered against the City, the Concessionaire shall cause the same to be satisfied within ninety (90) days after a final determination thereof, including a final determination of any appeals. In the event that the Concessionaire fails to appear, defend and indemnify the City in the manner provided herein, the City shall be entitled to appear, defend and pay as it deems appropriate and shall be entitled to recover from Concessionaire any amounts so expended, including its reasonable costs and attorney fees in addition to the remedies provided for breach of this Agreement provided elsewhere.

 b. Such indemnity shall not include any claims arising as a result of the sole negligence of the City, its employees and agents, but shall include but not be limited to any liability as may arise or occur from concurrent, contributing or joint actions or omissions of the Concessionaire and the City.

 17. ASSIGNMENT OF AGREEMENT PROHIBITED.

 The Concessionaire shall not assign or transfer this Agreement or otherwise convey any concession right or privilege granted hereunder or any part of the Premises unless the approval of the Superintendent is first obtained.

 18. STANDARDS.

 The Concessionaire, its agents and employees, shall render courteous service to the public with a goal of adding to the public use and enjoyment of Green Lake Park. The Concessionaire shall operate and conduct the concession in a businesslike manner, and will not permit any acts or conduct on the part of the Concessionaire's employees that would be detrimental to the Department's operation of the park or citizen use of the park.

 19. LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES.

 The Concessionaire shall keep the Concession Premises free and clear of any liens and encumbrances arising or growing out of its use and occupancy of the Concession Premises. At the Department's request, the Concessionaire shall furnish the Department written proof of payment of any item which would or might constitute the basis for such a lien on the Concession Premises if not paid.

 20. EQUALITY OF TREATMENT.

 The Concessionaire shall conduct its business in a manner that assures that no person will be subjected to unfair, unequal and illegal discriminatory treatment on the basis of such person's creed, religion, race, color, national origin, sex, age, or the presence of any sensory, mental, or physical handicap. No person shall be refused service, be given discriminatory treatment, or be denied any privilege, use of facilities, or participation in activities on the Concession Premises or be denied an opportunity to participate in subcontracting in a manner or on a basis that is prohibited by law, ordinance, rule or regulation.

 21. NON-DISCRIMINATION

 SMC 20.44.040 requires that in all concession contracts, the Concessionaire shall be required to do the following:

 a. The Concessionaire agrees to comply with all state and local laws prohibiting discrimination with regard to creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap.

 b. In addition, because this Concessionaire Agreement has a duration greater than seven (7) consecutive days, the Concessionaire further agrees that during the performance of this contract, the Concessionaire agrees as follows:

 i. The Concessionaire will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification.

 ii. The Concessionaire will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, national origin, marital status, political ideology, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship.

 iii. The Concessionaire agrees to post in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the contracting officer setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.

 iv. The Concessionaire will take affirmative action to ensure that all of its employees, agents and subcontractors adhere to these provisions; provided, nothing herein shall prevent an employer from giving preference in employment to members of his/her immediate family.

 v. The Concessionaire will, upon the request of the Director (as used herein Director means the City of Seattle Director of Executive Administration, or his/her designee) furnish to the Director on such form as may be provided therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by the lessee (contractor) in implementing the terms of this provision, and will permit access to his records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records requested by the Director for the purpose of investigation to determine compliance with these provisions.

 If, upon investigation, the Director determines that there is probable cause to believe that the lessee (contractor) has failed to comply with any of the terms of these provisions, the Concessionaire shall be so notified in writing. The contracting authority shall give the Concessionaire an opportunity to be heard, after ten (10) days' notice. If the contracting authority concurs in the findings of the Director, it may suspend or terminate this Agreement in accordance with law.

 vi. Failure to comply with any of the terms of these provisions shall be material breach of this Agreement.

 vii. The foregoing provisions will be inserted in all subleases (subcontracts) entered into under this lease (contract).

 22. CLOSURE OF CONCESSION PREMISES.

 The Department reserves the right to close the Concessionaire's operation or any portion thereof for the convenience of the Department upon a seven (7) day notice to the Concessionaire and to close the Concession Premises, or any portion thereof, without notice to meet any emergency as determined by the Superintendent. In the event of any such closure, the Department may post a sign notifying the public of the impending or effective closure.

 23. DEMOLITION OF CONCESSION PREMISES.

 The Department reserves the power to terminate this Agreement in order to demolish the Concession Premises. The Department will attempt to notify the Concessionaire of such intent in advance.

 24. SURRENDER OF PREMISES AND REMOVAL OF PROPERTY.

 a. Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement, the Concessionaire shall surrender the Concession Premises to the Department and promptly surrender and deliver to the Department all keys that it may have to any and all parts of the Concession Premises.

 i. Condition of premises. The Concession Premises shall be surrendered to the Department in as good a condition as at the date of execution of this Agreement, except for the effects of reasonable wear and tear, alterations, and repairs made with concurrence of the Department, and property damaged or destroyed by an uninsured peril or an insured peril where insurance proceeds are paid to the Department.

 ii. Removal of equipment. At the expiration of the term of this Agreement, the Concessionaire shall remove from the Concession Premises, at its sole expense, all trade equipment, trade furnishings and other personal property owned and placed in or on the Concession Premises by the Concessionaire. In removing its personal property the Concessionaire shall take due care to not damage or injure the Concession Premises. Structural and capital improvements shall not be removed.

 In the event of earlier termination, the Concessionaire shall have ten (10) days to complete removal of its property from the Concession Premises. In no event shall the Concessionaire make any claim or demand upon the City, nor shall the City be liable, for any inconvenience, annoyance, disturbance or loss of business or any other damage suffered by the Concessionaire arising out of such removal operation or the required relinquishment of capital improvements in or to the Concession Premises.

 25. PHOTOGRAPHS.

 Each party hereto may make photographs and motion pictures of the Concession Premises and the activity, people, displays, and exhibits thereon; provided, that in the event such material is to be used for a commercial purpose, prior to making the same the Concessionaire shall obtain the approval of the Superintendent and shall pay to the Department a fee therefore in an amount agreed upon by the Concessionaire and the Superintendent in accordance with applicable provisions of the Department's then-current Fees and Charges Schedule; and prior to using the same, the Concessionaire shall obtain the necessary written releases from every individual affected.

 26. WAIVER.

 No action other than a written document from the Department so stating shall constitute a waiver by the Department of any breach or default by Concessionaire nor shall such a document waive the Concessionaire's full compliance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge the Department may have of such breach, default, or non-compliance. The Department's failure to insist upon full performance or any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed as consent to or acceptance of such incomplete performance in the future.

 27. EXHIBITS

 The following exhibits are made a part of this Agreement:

 Exhibit A: Green Lake Food Concessionaire Map

 28. CAPTIONS.

 Captions are for convenient reference only, and do not limit or amplify the language of the paragraph(s) following.

 29. CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS.

 The parties hereto reserve the right to amend this Agreement from time to time by mutual agreement in writing. No amendment hereto shall be effective unless in writing and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties.

 30. APPROVALS BY THE DEPARTMENT OR SUPERINTENDENT.

 The granting of approval, consent, or permission or the taking of any other action by the Superintendent pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement does not constitute the taking of any official action, including the granting of approval, by any other City department or official where such action is required by law, ordinance, resolution or rule or regulation, before Concessionaire may rightfully commence, maintain, or terminate any particular undertaking under this Agreement.

 31. SUCCESSORS IN INTEREST.

 Unless otherwise provided, the terms, covenants, and conditions in this Agreement shall apply to and bind any and all heirs, successors, executors, administrators and assigns of the parties, all of whom shall be jointly and severally liable with the original contracting party.

 32. NO RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED.

 The Department shall in no event be construed to be a partner, associate or joint venturer of the Concessionaire or any party associated with the Concessionaire. The Concessionaire shall not create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of the Department or bind the Department in any manner.

 33. SEVERABILITY.

 Should any term, provision, condition or other portion of this Agreement or any provision of any document incorporated by reference be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement that can be given effect without the invalid provision, and to this end, the remainder shall continue in full force and effect.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Concession Agreement to be executed by their respective representative(s):

 HEALTHFIT DISTRIBUTION, INC., CONCESSIONAIRE

 By:

 Signature: _____________________________________________

 John Cannon

 _____________________________________ ____________, 2005

 Title Date

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION

 FOR THE SUPERINTENDENT:

 ______________________________________ ____________, 2005

 Kenneth R. Bounds, Date

 Superintendent, Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation

 [V1]I'm confused by the fee payment structure.. In a full year does the concessionaire pay $1666 per month each month until the end of the year, and then pay more (the 23.1% if necessary), or does he pay the greater of $1666 or 23.1% each month? Either way it seems to me that there would need to be a reconciliation at the end of the year, regardless of whether it's a full or partial year.

 Response: the concessionaire does not have a monthly minimum but only that at the end of the year, he totals at least a minimum of $20,000. The $1,666 is only a tool to make sure we get at least $20,000 by the end of the year. The partial year is put in there to account for incidents when this agreement doesn't get approved by council until the 3rd month of the calendar year.

 Does the last sentence of this paragraph need to be separated as an independent section that applies to both partial and full years?

 Response: yeah, that's a good idea Korie.

 - 13 - DPR Green Lake Food ORD Attachment 1

 Exhibit A to Attachment 1 of the DPR Green Lake Food Ordinance

[ Exhibit A (East Green Lake)](/~ordpics/115213a.gif)

 GREEN LAKE FOOD CONCESSIONAIRE MAP

 DPR Green Lake Food ORD Attachment 1, Exhibit A

```
