

********

**Council Bill Number: 115235**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121816**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to surplus city property located in the 3500 block of S. Graham Street; authorizing the sale of two tax parcels and the execution of a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Quit Claim Deed in connection therewith, to the Vietnamese Buddhist Community Co Lam Temple; designating the disposition of the sales proceeds; and ratifying and confirming prior actions.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 23, 2005
   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: Drago, Godden, Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 1, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 31, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 18, 2005
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, RELIGIOUS-INSTITUTIONS, RAINIER-VALLEY, BRIGHTON, COLUMBIA-CITY, BEACON-HILL

**Fiscal Note:**115235

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to surplus city property located in the 3500 block of S. Graham Street; authorizing the sale of two tax parcels and the execution of a Purchase and Sale Agreement and Quit Claim Deed in connection therewith, to the Vietnamese Buddhist Community Co Lam Temple; designating the disposition of the sales proceeds; and ratifying and confirming prior actions.

 WHEREAS, Resolution 29799 adopted policies and procedures and a process for notifying other City departments or other governmental agencies of the potential availability of property excess to department needs; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle acquired for general municipal purposes using Tax Property Sales Funds that certain property identified in Section 1 below (The Property) pursuant to Ordinance No. 88201 in 1959; and

 WHEREAS, The Property is excess to the requirements of the Fleets and Facilities Department; and

 WHEREAS, the availability of The Property has been circulated to City departments and public agencies as excess to the City's Fleets and Facilities Department requirements and no city or other public agency has indicated interest in assuming jurisdiction over said property; and

 WHEREAS, the Vietnamese Buddhist Community Co Lam Temple owns property that adjoins both parcels of The Property and made a good faith proposal to purchase The Property to provide additional space for its programs and activities; and

 WHEREAS, the Fleets and Facilities Department and the Real Estate Oversight Committee, having reviewed the suitability of the property against the criteria adopted in Resolution 29799, recommends sale of The Property to the Vietnamese Buddhist Community Co Lam Temple for the negotiated price of $128,000; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The real property legally described as follows:

 Lot 8 and Lot 11, Hillman City Addition, Division No. 6, as recorded in Volume 11 of Plats, Page 26, Records of King County, Washington.

 is hereby declared to be surplus.

 Section 2. The Fleets and Facilities Director ("Director") is hereby authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement ("Agreement") in substantially the form attached hereto as "Attachment A" and, as part of the closing for the conveyance contemplated herein, a Quit Claim Deed in substantially the form attached hereto as "Attachment B."

 Section 3. Proceeds from the sales authorized herein shall first be used to reimburse the Fleets and Facilities Department for the costs of appraisal and sale, and the remainder shall be deposited in the Unrestricted Subaccount of the Cumulative Reserve Subfund (00164) in accordance with Seattle Municipal Code 5.80.030, to be appropriated consistent with Council Resolution 30379.

 Section 4. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005. _________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment A: Purchase and Sale Agreement Attachment B: Quit Claim Deed 3/21/05 version #1a

 ATTACHMENT A REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 This Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement ("Agreement") is made as of this ____ day of _______, 2005, by and between the Vietnamese Buddhist Community Co Lam Temple, a non-profit 501(c)(3) corporation ("Purchaser"), and the City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Seller").

 Recitals

 A. Seller is the owner of that certain real property situated in King County, Washington, described below. The real property, together with all improvements and appurtenances thereto, is hereafter referred to as the "Property."

 B. The Purchaser is the owner of real property located between and adjoining the Property. The Purchaser wants to purchase land to provide additional parking and space for community activities and events.

 C. Seller desires to sell and the Purchaser desires to purchase the Property, subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

 Agreement

 1. Conveyance: Purchaser agrees to purchase, and the Seller agrees to sell and convey, upon the terms and conditions contained herein, the Property, which is located on the south side of South Graham Street between 33rd Avenue South and Martin Luther King Jr. Way South in the City of Seattle, in King County, State of Washington, and legally described as follows:

 Lots 8 and 11, Block 11, Hillman City Addition, Division #6, as recorded in Volume 11 of Plats, page 26, Records of King County, Washington.

 by Quit Claim Deed in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by this reference and to be delivered at closing .

 2. Purchase Price: The purchase price is One Hundred Twenty-eight Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($128,000.00).

 3. Terms of Payment: At Closing, Purchaser shall pay the Seller a total down payment of Twenty-five Thousand Dollars and no/100 ($25,000.00). The balance of the Purchase Price, One Hundred Three Thousand Dollars and no/100 ($103,000.00), with interest, as described below, shall be paid in five consecutive annual payments of Twenty Thousand Six Hundred Dollars ($20,600.00), each, with the first installment due on the first anniversary of the Closing date. In addition to said principal payment, each annual payment shall include simple interest calculated at six percent (6%) of the unpaid principal balance

 4. Council Authorization Required: Purchaser agrees and understands that the Seller must comply with a number of specific Policies and Procedures for the Disposition of city property, that the legislative documents and supporting materials must be approved at several stages, and that ultimately sale to the Purchaser must be approved and authorized by the Seattle City Council.

 5. Early Payment by Purchaser: Purchaser is entitled to accelerate payments and to fulfill its purchase obligations in less than the five years set forth in Paragraph 3 above. Purchaser will not be penalized for early or accelerated payments and will receive appropriate credits for interest not actually accrued or earned by the Seller.

 6. Additional Documents: Purchaser agrees and understands that Purchaser will be required to execute a Promissory Note and Deed of Trust at the Closing of the sale of the Property to guarantee payment of the Purchase Price to Seller. Copies of the proposed forms of these documents are attached hereto as Exhibits B and C.

 7. Closing Date: The Closing of this transaction shall occur not later than the ninetieth (90th) day after the effective date of the City of Seattle ordinance authorizing execution of this Agreement.

 8. Costs: Purchaser shall be responsible for all recording costs including: the excise tax affidavit, Promissory Note and Deed of Trust and all other transaction documents that require recording, any associated real estate excise taxes, and trustee services for the Deed of Trust, and upon faithful performance of the terms of the Deed of Trust and Promissory Note, shall pay the costs of recording the Quit Claim Deed. Except as specifically provided herein, neither party shall be responsible for paying any costs incurred by the other party in connection with this Agreement.

 9. Condition of Property: The Property is to be conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL-FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE PURCHASER'S INTENDED USES AND PURPOSES. Seller makes no representation or warranty whatsoever as to the condition of the Property to be conveyed to Purchaser under this Agreement.

 10. Acknowledgement, Release, & Indemnification Commitment Regarding Condition of Property: Purchaser acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or other conditions (including without limitation, adverse environmental soils and ground-water conditions), either latent or patent, may exist on the Property and assumes Seller's responsibility for all environmental conditions of the Property, known or unknown, including but not limited to responsibility, if any, for investigation, removal or remediation actions relating to the presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance or other environmental contamination relating to the Property. Purchaser also releases and shall indemnify, defend, and hold Seller and its past, present and future officials, employees, and agents, harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, penalties, fees, damages, losses, expenses (including but not limited to regulatory agencies, attorneys, contractors and consultants' fees and costs), and liabilities arising out of, or in any way connected with, the condition of the Property including but not limited to any alleged or actual past, present or future presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property, or any portion thereof or improvement thereon, from any cause whatsoever; it being intended that Purchaser shall so indemnify Seller and such personnel without regard to any fault or responsibility of Seller or the Purchaser. The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property and the acknowledgement, release and indemnification touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of the Property, constitute an assessment against the Property and are intended to run with the land and bind Purchaser and Purchaser's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Seller and its successors and assigns.

 For purposes of this section, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs") and compounds containing them; asbestos or asbestos-containing materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage tanks; or any substance or material that is now or hereafter becomes regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or other law relating to environmental protection, contamination or cleanup.

 The Purchaser's release shall include both claims by the Purchaser against Seller and cross-claims against Seller by the Purchaser based upon claims made against the Purchaser by any and all third parties. The obligation to indemnify and defend shall include, but not be limited to, any liability of the Purchaser to any and all federal, state or local regulatory agencies or other persons or entities for remedial action costs and natural resources damages claims. The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property and the acknowledgement, release and indemnification touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of the Property, constitute an assessment against the Property and are intended to run with the land and bind the Purchaser and the Purchaser's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Seller and its successors and assigns. This release means that the Purchaser accepts the Property "as-is, where-is and with-all- faults," and that the Purchaser assumes all responsibilities of Seller to investigate, remove and remediate any environmental conditions on the Property and has no recourse against Seller or any of its officers, employees or agents for any claim or liability with respect to the Property.

 Seller shall have the right to defend itself and seek from the Purchaser recovery of any damages, liabilities, settlement awards and defense costs and expenses incurred by Seller if the Purchaser does not accept unconditionally Seller's tender to the Purchaser of the duty to investigation, remove and/or remediate environmental conditions on the Property and/or defend and indemnify Seller against any such claim, suit, demand, penalty, fee, damages, losses, cost or expense. This section shall apply regardless of whether or not the Purchaser is culpable, negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation. This section is not intended, nor shall it, release, discharge or affect any rights or causes of action that Seller or the Purchaser may have against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly stated herein, and each of the parties reserves all such rights including, but not limited to, claims for contribution or cost recovery relating to any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property.

 11. Default:

 a. Purchaser's Remedies. In the event Seller defaults in any of its material obligations under this Agreement, Purchaser, at Purchaser's option, may (1) seek to specifically enforce this Agreement, or (2) terminate this Agreement by written notice to Seller.

 b. Seller's Remedies. In the event Purchaser defaults in any of its material obligations under this Agreement, Seller, at Seller's option, may (1) seek to specifically enforce this Agreement, or (2) terminate this Agreement by written notice to Purchaser.

 In the event of default, all amounts paid to the date of default will be retained by the Seller unless a negotiated settlement or litigated resolution of the respective rights and obligations of the parties hereto determines otherwise.

 12. Notices: All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, sent through the United States Postal Service by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or delivered via an overnight courier service, and shall be deemed received on the sooner of actual receipt or three (3) days after deposit in the mail or delivery to the courier service if addressed to Seller or to Purchaser, as the case may be, at the address set forth and with copies as specified below:

 Notices to Seller: David Hemmelgarn

 The City of Seattle

 Fleets and Facilities Department

 14th Floor, Alaska Building

 618 Second Avenue

 Seattle, Washington 98104

 Notices to Purchaser: Thai Din Cu

 Vietnamese Buddhist Community, Co Lam Temple

 3503 S. Graham St.

 Seattle, Washington 98118

 13. Amendments: Amendments to this Agreement may be made only after written approval by Seller and by Purchaser. Amendments that are not fairly within the scope of the authorizing ordinance, solely as determined by the City of Seattle City Attorney's Office, shall not be effective unless authorized by separate ordinance.

 14. Time: Time is the essence with respect to all provisions of this Agreement.

 15. Force Majeure: In the event that either party is unable to perform any or all of its obligations under this Agreement because of a natural disaster, action or decree of a governmental entity, or labor dispute, the party that has been so affected immediately shall give notice to the other party and shall do everything reasonably possible to resume performance. In the event that any such contingency occurs and notice is so given, the party that has had its performance affected shall have a reasonable time in which to resume performance, and nonperformance for a reasonable period of time shall not constitute a default under this Agreement.

 16. Governing Law; Venue: This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington. The venue for any action hereunder shall be in Superior Court of the State of Washington for King County.

 17. Attorneys' Fees: In the event of any litigation including, without limitation, bankruptcy, appellate, or arbitration proceedings between the parties arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, the substantially non-prevailing party shall pay all reasonable costs incurred by the substantially prevailing party including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees of the substantially prevailing party. If Seller prevails, its attorneys' fees shall be computed at the same rates charged by a private attorney in downtown Seattle who practices in a firm having at least as many attorneys as are employed in the Seattle City Attorney's Office, and who has experience comparable to the attorney representing the City.

 18. Singular and Plural Terms: In this Agreement the use of the singular shall include the plural; and pronouns of any gender or none shall include the masculine, feminine, and neutral, as the context may require.

 19. No Real Estate Broker or Agent Involved: The parties warrant and covenant to each other (said warranty and covenant surviving Closing) that neither has involved any real estate agent or broker in this transaction and that no commission is due to any real estate agent or broker as a result of this transaction.

 20. Agreement Survives Conveyance; Indemnification Obligation Survives Conveyance or Termination: It is the intent of the parties hereto that the provisions of this Agreement, including but not limited to its representations, warranties, waiver and release, and indemnification obligation shall survive the Closing of this conveyance and the delivery of any deed hereunder, and shall not be merged by or merge into any deed transferring any interest in the Property or any portion thereof; and that no such deed shall be deemed to affect or impair, in any way, any of the provisions, conditions, covenants, or terms of this Agreement, except as otherwise provided in this Property.

 21. Binding Effect on Heirs, Successors & Assigns: This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.

 22. Entire Understanding: This Agreement and the Attachments hereto constitute the entire Agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all prior agreements or understandings with respect to such matters.

 IN WITNESS HEREOF the parties have signed this Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement as of the date first stated above.

 The City of Seattle Vietnamese Buddhist Community

 By: By:

 Brenda Bauer

 Director Name_________________________

 Fleets and Facilities Department Title _________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _ day of _____________ , 2005, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Brenda Bauer, to me known to be the Acting Fleets and Facilities Director of The City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said Agreement to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said Agreement.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 (Signature) (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of residing at .

 My commission expires:

 (Seal)

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day of , 2005, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Thai Din Cu, authorized representative of the Vietnamese Buddhist Community, Co Temple, to me known to be the individual who executed the within and foregoing Agreement, and acknowledged said Agreement to be her/his free and voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein mentioned.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 (Signature) (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at ____________________.

 My commission expires: .

 (Seal)

 Attachments:

 Quit Claim Deed - Ex. A

 Promissory Note - Ex. B

 Deed of Trust - Ex. C

 - 1 -

 Attchment A

 After recording, return to: ______________________ ______________________ ______________________

 Exhibit A QUIT CLAIM DEED (Unimproved Property)

 Reference number of related documents:

 Grantor: The City of Seattle

 Grantee: Vietnamese Buddhist Community Co Lam Temple

 Legal Description:

 1. Abbreviated Form: Lots 8 and 11, Hillman City Addition, Division No. 6, Seattle, King County, Washington

 2. Additional legal description is on Page 1 of this document.

 Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number(s): 333300-1750; 333300- 1770

 Grant. The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Grantor"), hereby conveys and quit claims to Vietnamese Buddhist Community Co Lam Temple, ("Grantee"), for and in consideration of the sum of One Hundred Twenty-Eight Thousand Dollars ($128,000), plus interest, and subject to the COVENANT set forth below that certain real property located in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, and legally described as follows:

 Lot 8 and Lot 11, Block 11, Hillman City Addition, Division No. 6, as recorded in Volume 11 of Plats, page 26, Records of King County, Washington.

 COVENANT REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS

 The Property described herein is conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL- FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE GRANTEE'S INTENDED USES AND PURPOSES. Grantee acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or other conditions (including without limitation, adverse environmental soils and ground-water conditions), either latent or patent, may exist on the Property and assumes Grantor's responsibility for all environmental conditions of the Property, known or unknown, including but not limited to responsibility, if any, for investigation, removal or remediation actions relating to the presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance or other environmental contamination relating to the Property. Grantee also releases and shall indemnify, defend, and hold Grantor and its past, present and future officials, employees, and agents, harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, penalties, fees, damages, losses, expenses (including but not limited to regulatory agencies, attorneys, contractors and consultants' fees and costs), and liabilities arising out of, or in any way connected with, the condition of the Property including but not limited to any alleged or actual past, present or future presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property, or any portion thereof or improvement thereon, from any cause whatsoever; it being intended that Grantee shall so indemnify Grantor and such personnel without regard to any fault or responsibility of Grantor or Grantee. The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property and the acknowledgement, release and indemnification touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of the Property, constitute an assessment against the Property and are intended to run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Grantor and its successors and assigns.

 For purposes of this COVENANT, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs") and compounds containing them; asbestos or asbestos-containing materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage tanks; or any substance or material that is now or hereafter becomes regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or other law relating to environmental protection, contamination or cleanup.

 Grantee's release shall include both claims by Grantee against Grantor and cross-claims against Grantor by Grantee based upon claims made against Grantee by any and all third parties. The obligation to indemnify and defend shall include, but not be limited to, any liability of Grantor to any and all federal, state or local regulatory agencies or other persons or entities for remedial action costs and natural resources damages claims. The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property and the acknowledgement, release and indemnification touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of the Property, constitute an assessment against the Property and are intended to run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Grantor and its successors and assigns. This release means that Grantee accepts the Property "as-is, where-is and with-all-faults," and that Grantee assumes all responsibility of Grantor to investigate, remove and remediate any environmental conditions on the Property and has no recourse against Grantor or any of its officers, employees or agents for any claim or liability with respect to the Property.

 Grantor shall have the right to defend itself and seek from Grantee recovery of any damages, liabilities, settlement awards and defense costs and expenses incurred by Grantor if Grantee does not accept unconditionally Grantor's tender to Grantee of the duty to investigation, remove and/or remediate environmental conditions on the Property and/or defend and indemnify Grantor against any such claim, suit, demand, penalty, fee, damages, losses, cost or expense. This Covenant shall apply regardless of whether or not Grantee is culpable, negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation. This Covenant is not intended, nor shall it, release, discharge or affect any rights or causes of action that Grantor or Grantee may have against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly stated herein, and each of the parties reserves all such rights including, but not limited to, claims for contribution or cost recovery relating to any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property.

 Executed this ____day of ___________, 2005, pursuant to Ordinance of The City of Seattle.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE By: ________________________ Fleets & Facilities Director

 _______________________________________, the Grantee(s)/Purchaser(s) herein does/do hereby acknowledge and accept all of the terms, conditions, and provisions of the foregoing

 Covenant Regarding Environmental Conditions.

 Date:____________________ By:____________ ____________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________, 2005, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Brenda Bauer, to me known to be the Fleets & Facilities Director of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal corporation on behalf of which the within and foregoing instrument was executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this instrument above written. __________________________ (Signature) __________________________ (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at ____________

 My commission expires ____________.

 Exhibit B PROMISSORY NOTE

 $103,000.00 (U.S.) Seattle, Washington _______________________, 2005

 FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned borrower, Vietnamese Buddhist Community, Co Lam Temple, a Washington nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, ("VBC"), promises to pay to the order of the City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, ("City") at the City's offices at Fleets & Facilities Department, 14th Floor, Alaska Building, 618 Second Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98104, or at such other place as the holder of this Note (hereinafter, "holder") may from time to time designate in writing, the sum of One Hundred Three Thousand Dollars ($103,000.00) in lawful money of the United States, with interest thereon from the date of this Note until paid at the rate set forth below. Payment shall be in five annual payments; due upon the anniversary of the date of this Note, with simple interest payable each year at the date of said annual payment on the declining balance.

 SECTION 1. Interest Rate.

 The per annum interest rate hereunder (the "Note Rate") shall be six percent (6%).

 SECTION 2. Annual Payments.

 Beginning on the first anniversary of the date of this Note and on the same day of each and calendar year thereafter for four additional years (the "Annual Payment Dates"), VBC shall make an annual payment of principal to holder in the amount of Twenty Thousand Six Hundred Dollars ($20,600.00). In addition to said principal payment; the annual payment shall include payment of simple interest at the Note Rate on the unpaid principal balance immediately prior to payment.

 SECTION 3. Maturity.

 Unless sooner repaid by Borrower, the entire unpaid principal balance of this Note, plus all accrued but unpaid interest, and all other amounts owing hereunder shall be due and payable in full on the fifth anniversary of the date of this Note (the "Maturity Date").

 SECTION 4. Application of Payments.

 Payments shall be applied: (i) first, to the payment of accrued interest; (ii) second, at the option of holder, to the payment of any other amounts owing under this Note or secured by the Security Documents, other than accrued interest and principal, including, but not limited to advances holder may have made for taxes, assessments, insurance premiums, attorneys' fees, or other charges on any property given as security for this Note and late charges due hereunder; and (iii) third, to the reduction of principal of this Note.

 SECTION 5. Prepayment.

 Borrower may, upon thirty (30) days' prior written notice to holder, prepay its obligation under this Note in full or in part on any Annual Payment Date without penalty.

 SECTION 6. Late Charge.

 If any amount payable hereunder is paid more than ten (10) days after the due date thereof, Borrower promises to pay a late charge of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) as liquidated damages for the extra expense in handling past due payments.

 SECTION 7. Security.

 This Note is secured by that certain deed of trust from VBC to the City of even date herewith and executed by VBC, encumbering real property located in King County, Washington (the "Deed of Trust").

 SECTION 8. Default; Remedies.

 If default is made in the payment of any amount payable hereunder when due or in the keeping of any covenant of the Deed of Trust or this Note, then, at the option of holder, the entire indebtedness evidenced hereby shall become immediately due and payable. Upon default, and without notice or demand, all amounts owed under this Note, including all accrued but unpaid interest, shall thereafter bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum above the Note Rate (the "Default Rate") until such default is cured. Failure to exercise any option granted to holder hereunder shall not waive the right to exercise the same in the event of any subsequent default. Interest at the Default Rate shall commence to accrue upon default under this Note, including the failure to pay this Note at maturity.

 SECTION 9. Attorneys' Fees.

 In the event of any default under this Note, or in the event that any dispute arises relating to the interpretation, enforcement, or performance of this Note, the holder shall be entitled to collect from VBC on demand all fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith, including but not limited to fees of attorneys, accountants, appraisers, environmental inspectors, consultants, expert witnesses, arbitrators, mediators, and court reporters. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, VBC shall pay all such costs and expenses incurred in connection with (a) arbitration or other alternative dispute resolution proceedings, trial court actions, and appeals; (b) bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings of Borrower, any guarantor or other party liable for any of the obligations of this Note, or any party having any interest in any security for any of those obligations; (c) judicial or nonjudicial foreclosure on, or appointment of a receiver for, any property securing this Note; (d) postjudgment collection proceedings; (e) all claims, counterclaims, cross-claims, and defenses asserted in any of the foregoing whether or not they arise out of or are related to this Note or any security for this Note; (f) all preparation for any of the foregoing; and (g) all settlement negotiations with respect to any of the foregoing.

 SECTION 10. Miscellaneous.

 a) Every person or entity at any time liable for the payment of the indebtedness evidenced hereby waives presentment for payment, demand, and notice of nonpayment of this Note. Every such person or entity further hereby consents to any extension of the time of payment hereof or other modification of the terms of payment of this Note, the release of all or any part of the security herefor or the release of any party liable for the payment of the indebtedness evidenced hereby at any time and from time to time at the request of anyone now or hereafter liable therefor. Any such extension or release may be made without notice to any of such persons or entities and without discharging their liability.

 b) Each person or entity who signs this Note is jointly and severally liable for the full repayment of the entire indebtedness evidenced hereby and the full performance of each and every obligation contained in this Note and the Deed of Trust, except for persons signing solely in their representative capacity.

 c) The headings to the various sections have been inserted for convenience of reference only and do not define, limit, modify, or expand the express provisions of this Note.

 d) Time is of the essence under this Note and in the performance of every term, covenant and obligation contained herein.

 e) This Note is made with reference to and is to be construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Washington.

 f) Each married person who executes this Note as a Borrower agrees that recourse hereunder can be had to his or her separate property as well as the assets of his or her marital community.

 DATED as of the day and year first above written.

 ORAL AGREEMENTS OR ORAL COMMITMENTS TO LEND MONEY, EXTEND CREDIT OR TO FORBEAR FROM ENFORCING REPAYMENT OF A DEBT ARE NOT ENFORCEABLE UNDER WASHINGTON LAW.

 Vietnamese Buddhist Community, Co Lam Temple, a Washington nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation

 By: ___________________________________________ [print name]

 Its:_______________________________________

 RECORDED AT THE REQUEST OF:

 AND AFTER RECORDING RETURN TO: ______________________________ ______________________________ ______________________________ Seattle, WA 98_______

 Exhibit C DEED OF TRUST

 Grantor: Vietnamese Buddhist Community, Co Lam Temple, a Washington nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation

 Grantee: The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation

 Legal Description:

 L 8 & 11, B 11, Hillman City Add, Vol. 11, P 23 Official legal description on page 1.

 Assessor's Tax Parcel ID#:

 333300-1750 and 333300-1770

 Reference # (If applicable):

 Not applicable

 Exhibit C DEED OF TRUST

 (For Use in the State of Washington Only)

 THIS DEED OF TRUST, made this ____ day of _______________________, 2004, between Vietnamese Buddhist Community, CoLam Temple, a Washington nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, GRANTOR, whose address is 3503 S. Graham Street, Seattle, WA 98118, First American Title Insurance Company, a corporation, TRUSTEE, whose address is 2101 Fourth Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98121 and The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, BENEFICIARY, whose address is 618 2nd Avenue, 14th Floor, Seattle, WA. 98104,

 WITNESSETH: Grantor hereby bargains, sells and conveys to Trustee in Trust, with power of sale, the following described real property in King County, Washington:

 Lots 8 and 11, Block 11, Hillman City Addition, Division #6, as recorded in Volume 11 of Plats, page 23, Records of King County, Washington.

 Tax Account Numbers: 333300-1750 and 333300-1770

 which real property is not used principally for agricultural or farming purposes, together with all the tenements, hereditaments, and appurtenances now or hereafter thereunto belonging or in any wise appertaining, and the rents, issues and profits thereof.

 This deed is for the purpose of securing performance of each agreement of grantor herein contained, and payment of the sum of One Hundred Three Thousand and 00/100 Dollars, with interest ($103,000.00), in accordance with the terms of a promissory note of even date herewith, payable to Beneficiary or order, and made by Grantor, and all renewals, modifications and extensions thereof, and also such further sums as may be advanced or loaned by Beneficiary to Grantor, or any of their successors or assigns, together with interest thereon at such rate as shall be agreed upon.

 To protect the security of this Deed of Trust, Grantor covenants and agrees:

 1. To keep the property in good condition and repair; to permit no waste thereof; and to comply with all laws, ordinances, regulations, covenants, conditions and restrictions affecting the property.

 2. To pay before delinquent all lawful taxes and assessments upon the property; to keep the property free and clear of all other charges, liens or encumbrances impairing the security of this Deed of Trust.

 3. To defend any action or proceeding purporting to affect the security hereof or the rights or powers of Beneficiary or Trustee, and to pay all costs and expenses, including cost of title search and attorney's fees in a reasonable amount, in any such action or proceeding, and in any suit brought by Beneficiary to foreclose this Deed of Trust.

 4. To pay all costs, fees and expenses in connection with this Deed of Trust, including the expenses of the Trustee incurred in enforcing the obligation secured hereby and Trustee's and attorney's fees actually incurred, as provided by statute.

 5. Should Grantor fail to pay when due any taxes, assessments, liens, encumbrances or other charges against the property hereinabove described, Beneficiary may pay the same, and the amount so paid, with interest at the rate set forth in the note secured hereby, shall be added to and become a part of the debt secured in this Deed of Trust.

 IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED THAT:

 1. In the event any portion of the property is taken or damaged in an eminent domain proceeding by any entity other than Grantor, the entire amount of the award or such portion as may be necessary to fully satisfy the obligation secured hereby, shall be paid to Beneficiary to be applied to said obligation.

 2. By accepting payment of any sum secured hereby after its due date, Beneficiary does not waive its right to require prompt payment when due of all other sums so secured or to declare default for failure to so pay.

 3. The Trustee shall reconvey all or any part of the property covered by this Deed of Trust to the person entitled thereto on written request of the Grantor and the Beneficiary, or upon satisfaction of the obligation secured and written request for reconveyance made by the Beneficiary or the person entitled thereto.

 4. Upon default by Grantor in the payment of any indebtedness secured hereby or in the performance of any agreement contained herein, all sums secured hereby shall immediately become due and payable at the option of the Beneficiary. In such event and upon written request of Beneficiary, Trustee shall sell the trust property, in accordance with the Deed of Trust Act of the State of Washington, at public auction to the highest bidder. Any person except Trustee may bid at Trustee's sale. Trustee shall apply the proceeds of the sale as follows: (1) to the expense of the sale, including a reasonable Trustee's fee and attorney's fee; (2) to the obligation secured by this Deed of Trust; (3) the surplus, if any, shall be distributed to the persons entitled thereto.

 5. Trustee shall deliver to the purchaser at the sale its deed, without warranty, which shall convey to the purchaser the interest in the property which Grantor had or had the power to convey at the time of his execution of this Deed of Trust, and such as he may have acquired thereafter, Trustee's deed shall recite the facts showing that the sale was conducted in compliance with all the requirements of law and of this Deed of Trust, which recital shall be prima facie evidence of such compliance and conclusive evidence thereof in favor of bona fide purchaser and encumbrances for value.

 6. The power of sale conferred by this Deed of Trust and by the Deed of Trust Act of the State of Washington is not an exclusive remedy; Beneficiary may cause this Deed of Trust to be foreclosed as a mortgage.

 7. In the event of the death, incapacity, disability or resignation of Trustee, Beneficiary may appoint in writing a successor trustee, and upon the recording of such appointment in the mortgage records of the county in which this Deed of Trust is recorded, the successor trustee shall be vested with all powers of the original trustee. The trustee is not obligated to notify any party hereto of pending sale under any other Deed of Trust or of any action or proceeding in which Grantor, Trustee or Beneficiary shall be a party unless such action or proceeding is brought by the Trustee.

 8. This Deed of Trust applies to inures to, the benefit of, and is binding not only on the parties hereto, but on their heirs, devisees, legatees, administrators, executors and assigns. The term Beneficiary shall mean the holder and owner of the note secured hereby, whether or not named as Beneficiary herein.

 GRANTOR:

 Vietnamese Buddhist Community, Co Lam Temple, a Washington nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation _____________________________________ By: Thai Dinh Cu Its: President

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________, 2004, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Thai Dinh Cu, to me known to be the President of the Board of the Vietnamese Buddhist Community, Co Lam Temple, non-profit corporation 0n behalf of which the within and foregoing instrument was executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this instrument above written. ______________________________ (Signature) _____________________________ (Print or Type Name) NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at __________ My commission expires ____________.

 REQUEST FOR FULL RECONVEYANCE Do not record. To be used only when note has been paid.

 TO: TRUSTEE,

 The undersigned is the legal owner and holder of the note and all other indebtedness secured by the within Deed of Trust. Said note, together with all other indebtedness secured by said Deed of Trust, has been fully paid and satisfied, and you are hereby requested and directed, on payment to you of any sums owing to you under the terms of said Deed of Trust, to cancel said note above mentioned, and all other evidences of indebtedness secured by said Deed of Trust delivered to you herewith, together with the said Deed of Trust, and to reconvey, without warranty, to the parties designated by the terms of said Deed of Trust, all the estate now held by you thereunder.

 Dated _________________, 2005

 After recording, return to: ___________________ ___________________ ___________________

 After recording, return to:

 ATTACHMENT B QUIT CLAIM DEED

 (Unimproved Property)

 Reference number of related documents:

 Grantor: The City of Seattle

 Grantee: Vietnamese Buddhist Community Co Lam Temple

 Legal Description:

 1. Abbreviated Form: Lots 8 and 11, Hillman City Addition, Division No. 6, Seattle, King County, Washington

 2. Additional legal description is on Page 1 of this document.

 Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number(s): 333300-1750; 333300-1770

 Grant. The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Grantor"), hereby conveys and quit claims to Vietnamese Buddhist Community Co Lam Temple, ("Grantee"), for and in consideration of the sum of One Hundred Twenty-Eight Thousand Dollars ($128,000), plus interest, and subject to the COVENANT set forth below that certain real property located in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, and legally described as follows:

 Lot 8 and Lot 11, Block 11, Hillman City Addition, Division No. 6, as recorded

 in Volume 11 of Plats, page 26, Records of King County, Washington.

 COVENANT REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS

 The Property described herein is conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL- FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE GRANTEE'S INTENDED USES AND PURPOSES. Grantee acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or other conditions (including without limitation, adverse environmental soils and ground-water conditions), either latent or patent, may exist on the Property and assumes Grantor's responsibility for all environmental conditions of the Property, known or unknown, including but not limited to responsibility, if any, for investigation, removal or remediation actions relating to the presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance or other environmental contamination relating to the Property. Grantee also releases and shall indemnify, defend, and hold Grantor and its past, present and future officials, employees, and agents, harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, penalties, fees, damages, losses, expenses (including but not limited to regulatory agencies, attorneys, contractors and consultants' fees and costs), and liabilities arising out of, or in any way connected with, the condition of the Property including but not limited to any alleged or actual past, present or future presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property, or any portion thereof or improvement thereon, from any cause whatsoever; it being intended that Grantee shall so indemnify Grantor and such personnel without regard to any fault or responsibility of Grantor or Grantee. The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property and the acknowledgement, release and indemnification touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of the Property, constitute an assessment against the Property and are intended to run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Grantor and its successors and assigns.

 For purposes of this COVENANT, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs") and compounds containing them; asbestos or asbestos-containing materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage tanks; or any substance or material that is now or hereafter becomes regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or other law relating to environmental protection, contamination or cleanup.

 Grantee's release shall include both claims by Grantee against Grantor and cross-claims against Grantor by Grantee based upon claims made against Grantee by any and all third parties. The obligation to indemnify and defend shall include, but not be limited to, any liability of Grantor to any and all federal, state or local regulatory agencies or other persons or entities for remedial action costs and natural resources damages claims. The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property and the acknowledgement, release and indemnification touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of the Property, constitute an assessment against the Property and are intended to run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Grantor and its successors and assigns. This release means that Grantee accepts the Property "as- is, where-is and with-all-faults," and that Grantee assumes all responsibility of Grantor to investigate, remove and remediate any environmental conditions on the Property and has no recourse against Grantor or any of its officers, employees or agents for any claim or liability with respect to the Property.

 Grantor shall have the right to defend itself and seek from Grantee recovery of any damages, liabilities, settlement awards and defense costs and expenses incurred by Grantor if Grantee does not accept unconditionally Grantor's tender to Grantee of the duty to investigation, remove and/or remediate environmental conditions on the Property and/or defend and indemnify Grantor against any such claim, suit, demand, penalty, fee, damages, losses, cost or expense. This Covenant shall apply regardless of whether or not Grantee is culpable, negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation. This Covenant is not intended, nor shall it, release, discharge or affect any rights or causes of action that Grantor or Grantee may have against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly stated herein, and each of the parties reserves all such rights including, but not limited to, claims for contribution or cost recovery relating to any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property.

 Executed this ____day of ___________, 2005, pursuant to Ordinance of The City of Seattle.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:

 Fleets & Facilities Director

 _______________________________________, the Grantee(s)/Purchaser(s) herein does/do

 hereby acknowledge and accept all of the terms, conditions, and provisions of the foregoing

 Covenant Regarding Environmental Conditions.

 Date:____________________ By:___

 ____________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________, 200 , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Brenda Bauer, to me known to be the Fleets & Facilities Director of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal corporation on behalf of which the within and foregoing instrument was executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this instrument above written.

 (Signature) (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at .

 My commission expires ____________.

 3

 1

 Attachment B

```
