

********

**Council Bill Number: 115290**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121835**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Center; authorizing the sale and temporary leaseback of real property at the southwest corner of 2nd Avenue North and John St, commonly known as Seattle Center Parking Lot 4 ("Property"); providing for the deposit of sale proceeds; and making a reimbursable appropriation to pay for sale-related costs; and, declaring the Property exempt from Resolution 29799.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 20, 2005
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Compton)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 22, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 22, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 13, 2005
   
**Committee:** Parks, Neighborhoods & Education
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, QUEEN-ANNE, SEATTLE-CENTER, HOUSING, SEATTLE-CENTER-FACILITIES

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 30244, 29799

**Fiscal Note:**115290

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Center; authorizing the sale and temporary leaseback of real property at the southwest corner of 2nd Avenue North and John St, commonly known as Seattle Center Parking Lot 4 ("Property"); providing for the deposit of sale proceeds; and making a reimbursable appropriation to pay for sale-related costs; and, declaring the Property exempt from Resolution 29799.

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Center Master Plan, as updated by City Council Resolution 30244 in 2000, identified the Lot 4 site for future private development for the benefit of Seattle Center; and

 WHEREAS, the City has determined with the advice of the Seattle Center Director that the current public use of the Property as a surface parking lot is no longer needed; that public purposes will be satisfied by private redevelopment consistent with the City's Comprehensive Plan and Queen Anne Plan; and that the site is not needed for Seattle Center's future program needs; and

 WHEREAS, an addendum to the Seattle Center Master Plan EIS has been published and the review period completed regarding the sale of land in authorized public use and the removal of the Property as part of the Seattle Center campus; and

 WHEREAS, the projected proceeds from the sale of the Property were budgeted in the Adopted 2005-06 City Budget for the Seattle Center Operating Fund; and,

 WHEREAS, as a result of the City's competitive process, the Purchaser entered into the Purchase & Sale Agreement attached hereto as Attachment 1, agreeing to pay a purchase price of $6,700,000, subject to reasonable due diligence investigation of the property; and

 WHEREAS, IS Investment Properties LLC ("Purchaser") proposes to redevelop the property consistent with neighborhood commercial zoning (NC3-65), principally for residential use, which use would further the objectives of the City's Comprehensive Plan and the Queen Anne Plan; and,

 WHEREAS, the Purchaser has agreed to maintain the property in public parking, and may temporarily leaseback the site to Seattle Center to continue operation of a surface parking facility until such time as construction of their development commences; and,

 WHEREAS, Seattle Center will need to undertake pre-closing and closing activities in support of the sale of the Property, including compensation of the broker and closing costs; and,

 WHEREAS, the City intends that the cash proceeds from the sale of the Property pay all costs of the sale, including the broker's fee and all closing and related City costs associated with the sale of the Property, and that the net proceeds of the sale be deposited in the Seattle Center Operating Fund; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director ("Director") and recommended by the Mayor, Seattle Center's property known as Lot 4 located at the southwest corner of 2nd Avenue North and John St ("Property") is exempt from all of the requirements of Resolution 29799, and the Seattle Center Director or her or his designee is hereby authorized to sell the Property, as legally described in Exhibit A to Attachment 1.

 Section 2. The Director is authorized to sell the Property to IS Investment Properties LLC ("Purchaser"), as provided in the Purchase and Sale Agreement ("P&SA") included as Attachment 1 for a gross purchase price of SIX MILLION SEVEN HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($6,700,000), in all cash paid at closing.

 Section 3. The Seattle Center Director or her designee is further authorized, for and on behalf of the City, to execute a Bargain and Sale Deed substantially in the form included in Exhibit G to Attachment 1 for recording and delivery upon Purchaser's compliance with the conditions of the P&SA that are to be satisfied at or before closing, and such other agreements and documents as she reasonably determines are appropriate to effect the closing of such conveyance in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

 Section 4. The Seattle Center Director, or her or his designee, is authorized, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, to enter into any agreement(s) to provide for continued public parking use of the Property pending redevelopment of the property by the Purchaser.

 Section 5. Contingent upon the receipt by the City of proceeds of the sale of the property described in Section 2 above, and to pay for City costs and commitments associated with the sale of the Property, and the sale of Seattle Center Lot 5, authorized by separate ordinance, a reimbursable appropriation of $241,000 is made from the Cumulative Reserve Subfund -- Unrestricted Subaccount (Fund 11650) to the Lot 4 Site Development Project (S9907). Any amount of the appropriation in Section 5 that is unencumbered and unexpended within 120 days following the City's receipt of proceeds from the sale of the Property shall lapse.

 Section 6. Upon receipt by the City of proceeds of the sale of the Property or other money under the Contract:

 A. The amount of the appropriation from the Cumulative Reserve Subfund -- Unrestricted Subaccount made in Section 5 that has been spent, encumbered or committed shall be deposited in the Cumulative Reserve Subfund -- Unrestricted Subaccount reimbursement; and,

 B. The balance shall be deposited in the Seattle Center Operating Fund (11410).

 Section 7. Any acts pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 8. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT - Lot 4 - 2nd Avenue North and John St.

 Exhibits to Attachment 1:

 EXHIBIT A -- Legal Description of Land

 EXHIBIT B -- Site Map

 EXHIBIT C - Key Milestones

 EXHIBIT D - Form of Earnest Money Promissory Note

 EXHIBIT E - List of Documents

 EXHIBIT F - Form of lease for operation as interim parking facility

 EXHIBIT G - Form of Bargain and Sale Deed

 Shelly Yapp

 CEN Lot 4 Sale ORD

 May 18, 2005

 version #1

 1

PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT  FOR SALE OF REAL PROPERTY

 THIS AGREEMENT is entered into as of __________________, 2005, between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("Seller"), a first class city of the State of Washington, and IS PROPERTY INVESTMENTS LLC, a Washington limited liability company ("Purchaser").

 In consideration of the payment and receipt of the Purchase Price in exchange for the Property, and in reliance on the parties' mutual promises and undertakings and the mutual benefits to be derived from the promises contained in this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:

 1. PROPERTY AND INTERESTS

 Seller owns the real property and improvements described on Exhibit A and depicted on the site map as Exhibit B (the "Property") and the City has determined with the advice of the Seattle Center Director that the current public use of Lot 4 as a surface parking lot is no longer needed, and that the site is not necessary for current or future Seattle Center's future program needs, programs or support and can best serve interest of Seattle Center by sale and use of proceeds for Seattle Center's financial sustainability.

 2. SALE OF PROPERTY. Upon execution of this Agreement by the duly authorized representatives of Purchaser and Seller, and upon payment of the Purchase Price defined in Section 3 of this Agreement, Seller shall convey the Property to Purchaser subject to: (a) all taxes, assessments, restrictions, easements, agreements and other matters affecting the Property deemed acceptable by Purchaser; and (b) all applicable zoning rules, restrictions, regulations, resolutions and ordinances and building restrictions and governmental regulations now or hereafter in effect. The parties recognize that this Agreement is subject to approval by the Seattle City Council (See Exhibit C Key Milestones).

 3. PURCHASE PRICE.

 3.1 Purchase Price. The total purchase price for the Property ("Purchase Price") is Six Million Seven Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($6,700,000). The Purchase Price, less the Earnest Money and all accrued interest, shall be paid in cash at Closing.

 3.2 Earnest Money. Within five (5) business days (see Exhibit D, which is incorporated into this Agreement) after full execution of this Agreement, Purchaser shall deliver to the downtown Seattle office of Chicago Title Insurance Company ("Title Company"), 701 5th Avenue, Suite 1800, or such other escrow agent as may be satisfactory to both Purchaser and Seller ("Escrow Agent"), an earnest money deposit (the "Earnest Money") in an amount equal to five percent of the Purchase Price, or Three Hundred Thirty Five Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($335,500) in the form of a promissory note (Exhibit D), which note shall be converted to cash upon the expiration of the Due Diligence Period (as defined in Section 6.1.3) unless Purchaser has previously terminated this Agreement. When converted to cash, this sum shall be non-refundable to the Purchaser and deposited in an interest-bearing account, held until Closing and, together with all accrued interest thereon, shall be applied to the Purchase Price at Closing, unless forfeited or refunded to Purchaser as provided in this Agreement.

 4. TITLE, SURVEY, AND INSPECTIONS; LEASES.

 4.1 Title. Closing shall be conditioned upon Chicago Title Insurance Company ("Title Company") issuing or committing to issue to Purchaser a standard coverage ALTA owner's policy of title insurance in the amount of the Purchase Price (the "Title Policy"). The Title Policy shall insure that title to the Property is free and clear of all encumbrances except those listed in the title commitment and not

 objected to by Purchaser, which exceptions shall be the "Permitted Exceptions". The lien for any current real property taxes not yet due and payable, and those matters excluded from coverage by the standard Initial Corrected Page_________

 exceptions and exclusions contained in the form of title insurance policy required hereby are Permitted Exceptions. Title shall be conveyed by bargain and sale deed, subject only to the Permitted Exceptions. Within five (5) business days of executing this Agreement, Seller shall deliver a copy of the current title commitment ("Title Commitment") for the Property to Purchaser, along with legible and complete copies of all documents referenced as title exceptions in the Title Commitment.

 4.1.2 Purchaser shall have fifteen (15) business days after receipt of the Title Commitment to notify Seller of any objections Purchaser has to the condition of title. If Purchaser provides no such notice within the fifteen (15) business day period, then Purchaser shall be deemed to have no objections to the condition of title. Seller shall have ten (10) business days after receipt of Purchaser's objections, if any, to notify Purchaser whether Seller will remove the exceptions objected to by Purchaser. If Seller provides no such notice within the ten (10) business day period, then Seller shall be deemed to agree to remove all of the exceptions objected to by Purchaser prior to Closing.

 4.1.3 In the event that Seller provides notice that it will not remove all exceptions objected to by Purchaser prior to Closing, and the Parties cannot agree on an adjustment to the Purchase Price and/or other terms of this Agreement, then within ten (10) business days of notice by Seller of Seller's intent not to remove one or more of the exceptions, Purchaser may, at its sole option:

 (i) Notify Seller of Purchaser's intent to waive any exceptions which Seller has not agreed to remove and accept title to the Property subject to such exceptions, or

 (ii) Terminate this Agreement by written notice to Seller and Escrow Agent, in which event this Agreement shall terminate, the Earnest Money deposit and all interest earned thereon shall be promptly refunded to Purchaser, and neither party shall have any further rights, duties or obligations under this Agreement except as specifically provided otherwise.

 4.1.4 Cost of Title Report. In the event that this Agreement is terminated without Closing, the cost of the title insurance contemplated by this Agreement shall be borne by Seller, unless the transaction terminates due to a default of Purchaser under this Agreement, in which case Purchaser shall bear the costs of title insurance.

 4.2 License for Entry onto Property for Inspection, Study and Survey Purposes; Documents. In general, as it applies to this Section and its subsections, Purchaser shall exercise its rights granted herein at all times in such a manner as shall not result in the Property becoming subject to any lien arising out of Purchaser's exercise of rights. Any lien arising out of Purchaser's conduct of any right granted under this Agreement shall be removed immediately and at Purchaser's expense.

 4.2.1 License. Seller grants to Purchaser and its agents, a license to enter the Property upon prior notice to Seller, who shall arrange such access as Purchaser shall reasonably require, for the purpose of conducting any investigation, inspection, analysis, study or survey of the Property. The time, place and manner of inspection shall be fully described to Seller prior to entry and no investigation, inspection, analysis, study or survey shall be made which has not been approved in advance by Seller or which unreasonably disturbs the Seller's use and enjoyment of the Property. Seller shall not unreasonably withhold approval and shall endeavor to make access to the Property available for inspections. Purchaser shall promptly provide copies of any surveys, reports, analyses, etc., to Seller. The license granted in this section shall expire on the date of Closing or the date this Agreement is terminated, whichever is earlier.

 4.2.2 Environmental Reports. Within five (5) business days of the full execution of this Agreement, Seller shall furnish Purchaser with copies of all environmental reports or hazardous materials abatement reports, along with any abatement bids or estimates received by Seller, and all other information in the possession of Seller which reflects conditions on the Property, including environmental conditions, or the potential for same, and which pertain to the condition and/or any present or potential development and/or use of the Property.

 (i) Prior to expiration of the Due Diligence period, the Purchaser shall have the right, at its own expense, to commence any investigation of the Property, including but not limited to such environmental studies as it deems necessary to determine that the Property is free from Hazardous Materials. The Seller shall have the right to approve any investigation or testing of the Property prior to it actually taking place; provided that such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. In general, all such investigations or studies occurring on the premises shall not interfere with the Owner's use of the Property, shall be conducted in a manner consistent with best practices of the industry, and shall not expose any person to any condition potentially hazardous to that person's health. In the event that any accidental discharge or exposure of a hazardous condition should occur, Purchaser and its agents shall promptly take all steps reasonably calculated to minimize the effect of such exposure, and protect life, health and property and shall promptly notify the Seller. Purchaser shall notify Seller of the results of any studies it conducts.

 (ii) Any environmental study which Purchaser elects to undertake which requires invasive or destructive testing may be performed upon 3 business days' prior notice to Seller and upon proof of insurance adequate to the risk of damage or loss occurring during the testing to cover the cost of repair necessitated by such testing on the Property or any adjacent property owned by Seller.

 (iii) Any invasive or destructive testing shall be conducted at an agreed time, and in a manner intended to minimize disruption to the Seller's use of the property. In the event that this Agreement terminates without Closing, Purchaser covenants and agrees to repair any damage to the Property occasioned by the Purchaser's entry upon the Property or the conduct of any inspection, study or survey by or for Purchaser; provided however that Purchaser shall not be required to correct any conditions of the Property related to the presence of Hazardous Materials. Such repair shall be to the condition in which the Property existed immediately prior to Purchaser's initial entry upon the Property pursuant to the license granted herein. Purchaser shall indemnify and hold harmless Seller for any costs, loss or damage whatsoever incurred as a result of Purchaser's entry upon the Property and conduct of the inspection, study or survey

 4.2.3 Seller's Cooperation. Seller agrees that Seller and its employees will cooperate with Purchaser during Purchaser's investigation and survey and provide such access to the Property and such information about the Property as Purchaser shall reasonably require. In addition, Seller agrees that within five (5) business days after full execution of this Agreement, Seller shall provide to Purchaser a complete copy of the following to the extent they are in Seller's possession, custody or control: information relating to any proposal or commitment by Seller to alter existing improvements or structures or construct additional improvements or structures, or to dedicate any portion of the Property to any governmental entity; and all other reports, records, diagrams, photographs, maps or other Documents relating to the Property, as listed at Exhibit E attached hereto.

 4.3 Purchaser shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from any claims, costs (including attorney's fees), loss, liability and damage whatsoever incurred as a result of Purchaser's entry upon the Property and conduct of the inspection, study or survey or any other activity on the Property by or on behalf of the Purchaser in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except as provided in 5.2.4, the Purchaser's repair, defense and indemnification obligations under this section shall not extend to the correction of any preexisting condition that Purchaser discovers to be present on, under or about the Property.

 4.4 Seller Cooperation in Approvals Process. Seller agrees to reasonably cooperate with Purchaser in its pursuit of approvals from City of Seattle and other applicable authorities with jurisdiction over building and site improvement permitting and approvals, both pre- Closing and post-Closing, in connection with Purchaser's development project; provided, however, that closing is specifically not contingent on City approval of a Master Use Permit or any other permits.

 4.5 City Lease. A lease (Exhibit F) will be executed between the Purchaser and the Seller (as tenant) for the entire site to continue to be used as a parking lot. The term of the lease shall continue until such time as Purchaser needs to begin construction of its project; provided the lease may not terminate on or before September 6, 2005. The lease shall require the City to split all parking revenue from the site with the Purchaser with 70% of all gross revenue going to the Purchaser and 30% going to the Seller (the "City Lease.

 5. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES.

 5.1 Purchaser's Warranties. Purchaser represents and warrants as follows:

 5.1.1 Purchaser is a Washington limited liability company duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Washington.

 5.1.2 The purchase of the Property will not conflict with or result in a material breach affecting Purchaser's ability to perform under this Agreement, of any other agreement or instrument to which Purchaser is a party or by which it is or may be bound or constitute a default under any of the foregoing, or violate any state or federal governmental law, statute, ordinance or regulation in effect on the date of execution of this Agreement.

 5.1.3 The Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that the Property is being sold AS IS, WHERE IS, and that Seller makes no warranties or representations concerning the condition of the Property, except as specifically set forth in this Agreement, or its suitability for Purchaser's purposes.

 5.1.4 The representations and warranties made by Purchaser in this Agreement are true on and as of the date of Closing as though such representations and warranties had been made on and as of the date of Closing. Purchaser's representations set forth in this Section 5.1 shall survive Closing as set forth in Section 24 (Survival).

 5.2 Seller's Warranties. Seller represents and warrants as follows:

 5.2.1 Seller is a municipal corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Washington. Seller warrants that the Director of the Seattle Center Department is authorized on behalf of the Seller to execute this Agreement, subject to the approval of this Agreement by ordinance adopted by the Seattle City Council and signed by the Mayor of Seattle.

 5.2.2 Seller is aware of no condition on or affecting the title to the Property, including but not limited to any material defect or material adverse fact relating to the Property, which will not be reflected as a matter of record title and will not be disclosed to Purchaser at the time Seller provides Purchaser the Documents listed in Exhibit E.

 5.2.3 Seller is the owner of the Property. On receipt of the Title Commitment, Seller will review the same. At Closing, Seller will warrant that there are no claims affecting title to the Property, other than those disclosed by the Title Commitment as of Closing.

 5.2.4 To Seller's knowledge, other than as disclosed in the Documents provided by Seller to Purchaser, there are no Hazardous Materials (as defined in Section 22 hereof) which would prevent development or materially increase the cost of the proposed development on or in the Property. If any additional Hazardous Material is discovered by Purchaser on the Property prior to Closing, Purchaser shall have the right to terminate this Agreement. However, if the Purchaser does not terminate prior to Closing, the Purchaser shall accept the costs and liability of any conditions it encounters. The Property is being sold AS IS, WHERE IS, and Seller makes no warranties or representations concerning the condition of the Property or its suitability for Purchaser's purposes.

 5.2.5 To Seller's knowledge, there is no action, suit, investigation or proceeding (administrative or otherwise) pending or, to Seller's knowledge, threatened, against or affecting the Property or any portion of it, the transactions contemplated hereby, the Seller, or otherwise, which might affect the right of Purchaser to own or operate the Property, develop the Property as intended by Purchaser, or possess the Property, or which might result in any liability of Purchaser with respect thereto. There is no pending condemnation or similar proceeding affecting the Property or any portion thereof, and Seller has not received any notice and has no knowledge that any such proceeding is contemplated.

 5.2.6 There are no contracts, leases or other agreements which affect the Property or any portion thereof which would survive Closing, and Seller agrees not to enter into any such contracts, leases or other agreements, or to amend any of the Leases, between the date of this Agreement and the Closing.

 5.2.7 Other than as expressly disclosed by Seller to Purchaser in the Documents, the Property does not violate any applicable environmental, zoning, or building restrictions, insurance company guidelines, fire codes, or other governmental statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations or orders relating to health, safety or welfare or any orders by any governmental agency or known insurance company requirement corrective action for any of the foregoing.

 5.2.8 No representation or warranty by Seller contained in this Agreement or any exhibit hereto or in any document, statement, certificate, financial information, or schedule given to or to be given to Purchaser as a result of or in connection with this Agreement, knowingly contains or on Closing knowingly will contain, an untrue statement of material fact, or knowingly omits or on Closing will knowingly omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements and facts contained therein not misleading. The Documents listed in Exhibit E attached to this Agreement are all of the documents relating to the Property in the possession of the Seattle Center Department or within its reasonable control.

 5.2.9 Prior to Closing, Seller shall diligently manage and operate the Property and shall perform maintenance and replacements in accordance with customary schedules and perform repairs or replacements to any broken, defective or dysfunctioning portion of the Property as the relevant condition occurs, and otherwise operate and maintain the Property in a manner consistent with the manner in which Seller has previously maintained the Property; not violate or breach any zoning ordinance, fire code or building permit, nor commit any waste, damage, or nuisance; and promptly advise Purchaser of any litigation, arbitration, or administrative hearing affecting the Property.

 5.2.10 Seller at Seller's expense shall continue to insure the Property against damage by fire or any other destructive forces in the amounts and coverages in place as of the date of mutual execution of this Agreement and Seller shall retain such insurance in full force and effect until Closing or any earlier termination of this Agreement. Seller has not received any notice from any insurance company of any defects or inadequacies in the Property or any part thereof which would adversely affect the insurability of the Property or the premiums for insurance thereof, and Seller is not aware of any such defects or inadequacies.

 5.2.11 Seller is aware that Purchaser intends to develop the Property as a mid-rise residential project, and Seller knows of no statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations, orders, proceedings or other conditions which would preclude Purchaser from doing so.

 5.3 Purchaser's Understanding of the Property. Unless Purchaser terminates this Agreement in accordance with the terms hereof, Purchaser agrees that it will accept the Property "AS IS" at Closing. Purchaser acknowledges that:

 (i) The Property consists of approximately 36,000 square feet of area.

 (ii) The Purchaser has reviewed the Phase 1 Environmental report for the Property.

 (iii) The Purchaser understands the current zoning of the Property.

 6. PURCHASER'S CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO CLOSING

 6.1. Purchaser shall be obligated to complete this transaction upon the following conditions:

 6.1.1 Seller is able to convey title to the Property as described in Section 4 hereof, subject only to the Permitted Exceptions;

 6.1.2 The Title Company is able to issue to Purchaser the Title Policy;

 6.1.3 Within twenty (20) business days after this Agreement is fully executed (the "Due Diligence Period"), Purchaser has determined in its sole discretion that the Property is acceptable to Purchaser. If the Purchaser notifies the City that it is satisfied with the Property or waives its due diligence by the end of the Due Diligence Period ("Successful Completion"), the Earnest Money shall become non- refundable unless the City fails to perform. If the Purchaser fails to notify the City that it is satisfied with or waives its due diligence by the end of the Due Diligence Period, this Agreement will terminate and the Earnest Money shall be returned to Purchaser.

 6.1.4 City Approval (as defined in Section 7.1.1 below) has been obtained by Seller, and Purchaser has approved in its discretion any terms and conditions imposed by the Mayor and/or the City Council. Seller shall provide the form of Ordinance (as defined in Section 7.1.1 below) to be submitted to the City Council for approval within ten (10) business days after Successful Completion of the Due Diligence period

 7. SELLER'S CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO CLOSING

 7.1 Seller shall be obligated to complete this transaction upon the following conditions:

 7.1.1 Approval of this Agreement by the requisite vote of the City Council of the City of Seattle of an appropriate ordinance acceptable in form and substance to Purchaser ("Ordinance"), which must then be approved by the Mayor after which thirty (30) days must expire without challenge for said Ordinance to be effective, (the expiration without challenge of the Ordinance shall hereinafter be referred to as "City Approval"). If City Approval has not been obtained by that date which is one hundred and twenty (120) days after the expiration of the Due Diligence Period, then, unless this Agreement is extended by the signed agreement of both parties, this Agreement will be immediately terminated, whereupon the Earnest Money together with all interest accrued thereon shall be returned to Purchaser within three (3) days after delivery to Seller and Escrow Agent of Purchaser's notice of such termination.

 7.1.2 Purchaser shall have complied with all its obligations under this Agreement.

 7.1.3 The representations and warranties made by Purchaser in this Agreement are true on and as of the date of Closing with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on and as of the date of Closing.

 8. TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT

 8.1 If any condition or contingency described in this Agreement has not been either satisfied or waived within the time period associated with such condition or contingency, the Earnest Money, together with all accrued interest thereon, shall be released by the Escrow Agent to Purchaser within three (3) business days after such notice of termination The Earnest Money shall become non-refundable upon Purchaser's notice to Seller that it has waived or satisfied its due diligence review condition, unless (a) the City fails to perform its obligations under this Agreement or (b) Purchaser otherwise terminates this Agreement in accordance with any of the terms of this Agreement.

 9. ESTABLISHMENT OF ESCROW AND CLOSING

 9.1 Establishment of Escrow. Within five (5) business days of full execution of this Agreement, Seller shall open an escrow account with the Escrow Agent identified in Section 3.2 in order to consummate the sale and purchase of the Property in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.

 9.2 Escrow Instructions. The provisions of this Agreement shall constitute the joint instructions of the parties to the Escrow Agent; provided, however, that the parties may provide additional instructions to the Escrow Agent, as mutually agreed and not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.

 9.3 Date of Closing. The Closing (see Exhibit C) shall occur no later than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the Due Diligence Period ("Closing"), or no more than ten (10) days following City Approval, whichever is the earlier event to occur. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if City Approval (as defined in 7.1.1) does not occur on or before ninety (90) days after the expiration of the Due Diligence period then, at Purchaser's option and sole discretion this Agreement may be terminated by Purchaser, whereupon the Earnest Money together with all interest accrued thereon shall be returned to Purchaser within three (3) business days after delivery to Seller and Escrow Agent of Purchaser's notice of such termination. If Closing has not occurred on or before one hundred twenty days (120) after the expiration of the Due Diligence Period and neither party is in default under the Agreement, the Agreement shall automatically terminate unless extended by mutual agreement of both parties.

 9.4 Purchaser's Closing Obligations & Instruments. At Closing, Purchaser shall deliver to Seller through the Escrow Agent:

 9.4.1 By certified or cashier's check or wire transfer, the Purchase Price, less the Earnest Money deposit and all interest earned thereon, adjusted and prorated as provided in this Agreement;

 9.4.2 Such other instruments as are reasonably necessary to consummate this purchase and sale transaction.

 9.5 Seller's Closing Obligations & Instruments. At Closing, Seller shall deliver to Purchaser through the Escrow Agent:

 9.5.1 A fully executed and acknowledged bargain and sale deed subject only to the Permitted Exceptions (Exhibit G).

 9.5.2 Such other instruments as are reasonably necessary to consummate this purchase and sale transaction.

 10. ESCROW AGENT'S OBLIGATIONS

 10.1 The Escrow Agent shall receive, hold and disburse all funds, arrange the execution, delivery and recording of all instruments necessary to this transaction and shall otherwise act in accordance with the mutual written instructions of the parties to this Agreement and in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington.

 10.2 Earnest Money. The Earnest Money paid by Purchaser shall be held by Escrow Agent in a separate interest bearing account, identified to this transaction. The interest accruing thereon between the date of deposit and the date of Closing shall be applied to the Purchaser's obligations at Closing, or if this Agreement is terminated prior to the date of Closing, such interest shall be returned to Purchaser together with the Earnest Money.

 10.3 Escrow Agent shall record all documents necessary to transfer title and thereafter shall pay to Seller the Purchase Price, as adjusted and prorated for Seller's portion of costs of this transaction and after deduction of all applicable fees and taxes.

 10.4 Proration and Expenses. Assessments, surface water management charges, conservation service charges, and utility charges constituting liens against the Property, all for the year of Closing, shall be prorated as of the date of Closing. Any documentary transfer tax, real estate excise tax, or other similar tax in accordance with the requirements of lawful authority shall be paid by Seller. Seller shall pay the premium for the issuance of a standard owner's title insurance policy to be issued to Purchaser at Closing, provided, however, that Purchaser shall pay the cost of extended (ALTA) coverage as well as any additional endorsement premiums. All other recording and closing costs (including the escrow fee and expenses associated therewith) shall be the responsibility of the Purchaser.

 10.5 At Closing, the Escrow Agent shall have the Title Company issue to Purchaser the Title Policy insuring fee simple title to the Property subject only to exceptions approved or deemed to have been approved by Purchaser.

 11. DEFAULT

 11.1 If either party to this Agreement shall fail or refuse to perform or satisfy a material obligation under this Agreement and the other party has performed all of its obligations under this Agreement, then the party who has failed or refused to perform shall be in default and the non-defaulting party may elect from the following remedies.

 11.1.1 Seller in Default. In the event that Seller is in default, Purchaser may elect to seek specific performance of this Agreement or any other remedy available at law or equity or recover its Earnest Money deposit together with accrued interest thereon and may, by written notice to Seller, abandon this transaction.

 11.1.2 Purchaser in Default. In the event that Purchaser fails to close this transaction without legal excuse, Seller may retain the Earnest Money deposit together with accrued interest as liquidated damages as Seller's sole and exclusive remedy under this Agreement, in which event this Agreement shall terminate and Seller shall have no further rights and Purchaser shall have no further obligations under this Agreement.

 12. CONDITION OF PROPERTY; RISK OF LOSS

 12.1 Seller shall deliver the Property to Purchaser at Closing in substantially the same physical condition as of the date of Seller's execution of this Agreement, excepting ordinary wear and tear.

 12.2. Risk of Loss

 In the event that the improvements on the Property are destroyed or materially damaged between the date this Agreement is executed by the Seller and the date title is conveyed to Purchaser, Purchaser shall accept the Property in its then condition, and any insurance proceeds payable to Seller by reason of the damage to the Property shall be paid and/or assigned, as the case may be, to Purchaser and Purchaser shall receive a credit at Closing, for the amount of any deductible applied to the loss.

 13. CONDEMNATION.

 13.1 If, prior to the date of Closing, all or any part of the Property is taken by condemnation by a governmental authority other than the City of Seattle or any agency, commission, department or entity in any way related thereto ("Superior Governmental Authority"), the Purchaser may elect to cancel this Agreement by giving Seller notice to that effect, whereupon the Escrow Agent shall immediately return the Earnest Money and all interest earned thereon to the Purchaser and both parties shall be relieved and released from any liability hereunder to the other. Alternatively, the Purchaser may elect to take title to the Property in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement without reduction of the Purchase Price and shall be entitled to receive from the Superior Governmental Authority any condemnation award or benefit. If Purchaser purchases the Property and complies with all of the terms of this Agreement, Seller shall assign to Purchaser all of its right, title and interest in and to any such condemnation award or benefit, if any, that may be owing to the owner of the Property as a result of such condemnation or taking of, or damage or change to the Property, provided, however, that in such event, Seller's warranties, other than as to the condition of title to the Property, shall lapse.

 14. BROKERS; INDEMNIFICATION

 14.1 Purchaser and Seller each warrant and represent that they will each be solely responsible for any and all commissions due their respective real estate broker, salesman, finder or similar intermediary in connection with the purchase of the Property, and each shall hold harmless, indemnify and defend the other from and against any claim based on any alleged fact inconsistent with such party's warranty and representation contained in this paragraph 14.1. The Seller is represented by Metropolitan Partners. The Purchaser represents that it has not been represented by any broker in connection with the purchase of the Property. This indemnification obligation shall survive the Closing and the termination of this Agreement.

 15. ASSIGNMENT; BINDING EFFECT

 15.1 This Agreement may be assigned by the Purchaser subject to approval by Seller which approval will not be unreasonably withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser may assign this Agreement at Closing to any entity in which Purchaser has a 51% or greater ownership interest, without Seller's consent. .

 15.2 Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall be binding upon each party and its assigns and successors.

 16. NOTICES

 16.1 All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, sent via facsimile or sent by Federal Express or by registered or certified mail through the U.S. Postal Service with postage prepaid as follows:

 SELLER:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 Neal Erickson

 Seattle Center Redevelopment Division

 Center House, Room 109

 305 Harrison Street

 Seattle, Washington 98109

 PURCHASER:

 IS PROPERTY INVESTMENTS LLC

 2505 Second Avenue, Suite 300

 Seattle, WA 98121

 Attn: Michael E. Lierman

 With a copy to:

 Thomas A. Barkewitz

 Alston, Courtnage & Bassetti LLP

 1000 Second Avenue, Suite 3900

 Seattle, WA 98104-1045

 or to such other address as shall be furnished in writing with five (5) business days' prior notice by either party.

 16.2 Notices shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of actual receipt, as evidenced by the deliverer's affidavit, the recipient's acknowledgment of receipt, facsimile confirmation, or the Federal Express receipt, and in the event of attempted delivery during normal business hours at the proper address by an agent of a party or by Federal Express or the U.S. Postal Service but refused acceptance, shall be deemed to have been given upon attempted delivery, as evidenced by an affidavit of inability to deliver stating the time, date, place and manner in which such delivery was attempted and the manner in which such delivery was refused.

 17. GOVERNING LAW JURISDICTION AND VENUE

 17.1 This Agreement shall be governed by the law of the State of Washington.

 17.2 In the event that litigation is commenced by either party, the parties to this Agreement agree that jurisdiction shall lie solely in the King County Superior Court, with venue at Seattle, King County, Washington.

 17.3 In the event of litigation between the parties hereto, declaratory or otherwise, in connection with or arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall recover from the non-prevailing party all actual costs, actual damages and actual expenses, including attorneys' fees and charges, paralegal and clerical fees and charges and other professional or consultants' fees or charges, expended or incurred in connection therewith, as set by the court, including for appeals, which shall be determined and fixed by the court as part of the judgment.

 18. TIME OF THE ESSENCE; CALCULATION OF TIME PERIODS

 18.1 Time is of the essence of this Agreement and of all acts required to be done and performed by either and both of the parties hereto, including but not limited to the proper delivery of all documents, and the tender of all amounts of money, required by the terms hereof to be delivered or paid, respectively. Any extension of time granted for performance of any obligation to this Agreement shall not be considered an extension of time for the performance of any other obligation under this Agreement.

 18.2 Unless otherwise specified, in computing any period of time described in this Agreement, the day of the act or event after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included and the last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless such last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. The final day of any such period shall be deemed to end at 5:00 p.m., Pacific time.

 19. COUNTERPARTS

 19.1 This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and by facsimile, if so, only when counterparts are delivered to the Escrow Agent, with the signatures of each and every one of the parties constituting the Purchaser and Seller, shall it be deemed a binding Agreement.

 19.2 It is understood, agreed and acknowledged that if both Purchaser and Seller have not executed a counterpart of this Agreement and deposited signed copies, accompanied by the deposit with the escrow agent as provided for in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be of no force and effect.

 20. WAIVER

 20.1 Any waiver under this Agreement must be in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default shall not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default.

 20.2 No writing other than a document signed by the Seller's Seattle Center Department Director specifically so stating that it is a waiver shall constitute a waiver by Seller of any particular breach or default by Purchaser, nor shall such a writing waive Purchaser's failure to fully comply with any other term or condition of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge that any officer or employee of Seller may have of such breach, default, or noncompliance.

 21. ENTIRE AGREEMENT; MODIFICATIONS; NEGOTIATED UNDERSTANDING

 21.1 This Agreement, including all exhibits (which by this reference are incorporated herein), represents the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the Property and any and all agreements, oral or written, entered into prior to the date hereof are revoked and superseded by this Agreement.

 21.2 This Agreement may not be changed, modified or rescinded except in writing signed by both parties and any attempt at oral modification of this Agreement shall be of no effect.

 21.3 The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 22. DEFINITIONS

 For the purposes of this Agreement, the following terms and phrases are defined as specified below:

 22.1 "Document" means and includes information stored in any form; any written, recorded or graphic matter, however produced or reproduced; and copies and drafts thereof. Without limiting the foregoing, "Document" includes correspondence; telegrams; memoranda; reports; notes; drafts; minutes; contracts; agreements; books; records; vouchers; invoices; diaries; calendar notes; logs; computer print-outs; e-mails; voice mails; memory programs; information stored in any data processing or word processing system, in whatever form; back-up materials of any kind; card files; press clippings; newspapers or newsletters; sworn or unsworn statements of employees; lists; audits; tables of organization; monthly or other periodic statements; journals; notices; affidavits; court papers; appointment books; minutes or records of conferences or telephone calls; brochures; written reports or opinions of investigators or experts; status reports; drawings; charts; photographs; negatives; or tape recordings.

 22.2 "Environmental report" means and includes but is not limited to any document relating to the physical condition of the Property or such adjacent property or the presence on the Property or such adjacent property of any Hazardous Materials, as that term is defined in Subparagraph in Section 22.3.

 22.3 "Hazardous Materials" means and includes any hazardous or toxic substance or container therefor that is or becomes regulated by any governmental authority and includes, without limitation, underground storage tanks and any substance that is:

 (i) Defined as a "Hazardous Substance" "Hazardous Waste," or "Extremely Hazardous Substance" pursuant to any provision of the United States Code, including United States Code sections commonly known as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act or the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986;

 (ii) Defined as a hazardous substance or material pursuant to any state or local law, ordinance or regulation governing the Property;

 (iii) A petroleum or a petroleum by-product;

 (iv) An asbestos or asbestos containing material;

 (v) A pesticide;

 (vi) A polychlorinated biphenyl;

 (viii) A dry cleaning fluid; or

 (ix) A solvent.

 22.4 "In Seller's possession, custody or control" means and includes retained or maintained by, or within the knowledge of, or to which access is reasonably available by , the Seattle Center Department or any of its officers, employees, attorneys, agents, consultants or storage providers.

 23. FURTHER INSTRUMENTS AND ACTION

 23.1 Each party shall promptly, upon the request of the other or Escrow Agent, execute, and as required, have acknowledged and deliver to the other, any and all further instruments and shall take all such further action as may be requested or appropriate to evidence or give effect to the provisions of this Agreement or to satisfy escrow agent's requirements.

 24. SURVIVAL

 24.1 All warranties, representations, covenants, obligations and agreements contained in or arising out of this Agreement or in any certificates or other documents required to be furnished hereunder, shall survive the Closing. All warranties and representations shall be effective regardless of any investigation made or which could have been made.

 25. TAX DEFERRED EXCHANGE

 25.1 Purchaser may elect to incorporate this transaction into a tax deferred exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. In furtherance thereof, Seller agrees to allow Purchaser to assign this Agreement to a third party exchange intermediary for the purpose of effecting the exchange provided that any such exchange will not delay closing or be interpreted to extend any deadline of this Purchase and Sale Agreement.. Seller agrees to cooperate with the exchanging party in effecting such exchange; provided that the Seller shall not be required to incur any liability as a result of such cooperation. The failure of the exchange to qualify as an exchange under Section 1031 shall not constitute grounds for rescission by either party and shall not be deemed to be a failure of consideration.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Seller and Purchaser have caused this Agreement to be executed by officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written, which shall be the date that the last of Seller and Purchaser shall have executed this Agreement.

 SIGNATURES APPEAR ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE

 SELLER: PURCHASER:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE IS PROPERTY INVESTMENTS LLC

 By: _______________________________ By:

 Virginia Anderson, Director Michael E. Lierman, President

 STATE OF WASHINGTON)

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____day of _______________, 2005, before me, personally appeared Virginia Anderson, to me known to be the Director of Seattle Center Department of The City of Seattle, who executed the foregoing agreement, and acknowledged the same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said agreement.

 GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year written above in this certificate.

 (Signature) _______________________

 (Printed or typed name of Notary Public):

 ___________________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _________________________ My appointment expires __________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF )

 On this _____day of _____________, 2005 before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _______________________, who executed the foregoing document, and acknowledged the same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute such document for and on behalf of said corporation.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year written above in this certificate.

 (Signature) _______________________

 (Printed or typed name of Notary Public):

 ___________________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _________________________ My appointment expires __________________

 EXHIBIT A

 Legal Description

 Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 12, Block 38, D. T. Denny's 3rd addition to North Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, Page 145, in King County Washington.

 EXHIBIT B

[Exhibit B - Site Map](/~ordpics/115290At1ExB.gif) Site Map

 EXHIBIT C

 Key Milestones

 Signing of Purchase and Sale Agreement May 2

 Purchaser delivers Earnest Money Deposit to Escrow May 9

 Seller opens Escrow May 9

 Seller provides all Documents and Environmental Reports listed in Exhibit D May 9*

 Seller delivers copy of current title commitment May 9*

 Purchaser has 15 business days to notify seller of objections to conditions to title May 27

 Purchaser's Due Diligence Period shall conclude 20 business days following full

 execution of this Agreement by the parties. May 31

 Seller has 10 business days to notify Purchaser whether it will remove objections

 to conditions of title June 13

 If Seller notifies Purchaser it will not remove objections, then within 10 business

 days Purchaser can waive objections or terminate PSA June 27

 Within 10 business days of termination of Due Diligence, Seller shall provide the

 form of an Ordinance to be submitted to City Council June 15

 Closing shall occur no later than 90 days after termination of Due Diligence or 10 days

 after City Approval, whichever occurs earlier August 16-31

 * If Seller does not deliver the Documents, Environmental Reports and title commitment by May 9, each milestone date thereafter will be extended one day for each day between May 9 and the day on which the materials are actually delivered to Purchaser.

 EXHIBIT D

 Earnest Money Promissory Note

 $335,500 Seattle, Washington

 May ___, 2005

 FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned promises to pay in lawful money of the United States to the order of CHICAGO TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY, the amount of Three Hundred Thirty Five Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($335,500) to be held as Earnest Money in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Agreement defined below, for the account of THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("Payee").

 This note shall be paid as follows:

 Upon demand, after expiration of the Due Diligence Period, as that term is defined in Section 6.1.3, and otherwise pursuant to the provisions of, that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement for Sale of Real Property dated May 2, 2005 ("Agreement") between the undersigned as Purchaser and Payee as Seller with respect to certain property located in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, unless (i) Purchaser has terminated the Agreement on or before the expiration of the Due Diligence Period, (ii) Seller defaults under the Agreement, or (iii) the transaction contemplated under the Agreement has closed and Purchaser has paid Payee the full purchase price as set forth in the Agreement.

 If suit is brought on this note after any default in any payment, the undersigned promises and agrees to pay reasonable attorneys' fees incurred thereby.

 This note shall be construed according to the laws of the State of Washington

 IS PROPERTY INVESTMENTS LLC

 a Washington limited liability company

 By

 Michael E. Lierman, President

 EXHIBIT E

 List of Documents

 Phase 1 Environmental Assessment, Seattle Center Parking Lot #4, 2004. Shannon & Wilson, Inc.

 Addendum to Seattle Center 2000 Master Plan EIS, Seattle Center Master Plan Update for Lot 4 and 5 Revisions, May 3, 2005

 2nd Early Design Guideline Meeting of DRB 3; February 1999 (159 room Hotel proposal)

 Early Design Guidelines of Design Review Board 3; August 4, 1999 (160 room Hotel proposal)

 2nd Early Design Guideline Meeting of Design Review Board 3; September 15, 1999 (190 room hotel)

 Minutes: October 7, 1999; Seattle Design Commission; (including Seattle Center Hotel)

 Seattle Center Public Meeting - Hotel; October 21, 1999 7pm; Summary of Questions Raised

 Minutes; February 17, 2000; Seattle Design Commission; (including review of Seattle Center master Plan and Seattle Center Hotel)

 Traffic Impact Analysis for The Inn at the Center Hotel; April 14, 2000; The Transpo Group

 SEPA Determination of Non-Significance (DNS) of Proposed Action. (Ground lease between Inn at the Center, LLC and The City of Seattle; June 22, 2000

 Findings and Decision of The Hearing Examiner for The City of Seattle (appeal to hearing examiner of DNS and approval of Design Review approval); April 23, 2001

 EXHIBIT F

 Lease

 This Lease is made and entered as of the _____ day of ______, 2005 by and between IS PROPERTY INVESTMENTS LLC, a Washington limited liability company ("Landlord"), and The City of Seattle, acting by and through the Director of the Seattle Center Department or such official's designee ("Tenant").

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS the Seattle Center has operated Parking Lot 4 since 1986 in support of the public interest and the Seattle arts community; and

 WHEREAS IS Property Investments LLC acquired the property _________ of 2005; and

 WHEREAS both parties desire that the property continue to serve as an interim parking facility; and

 WHEREAS the parties have agreed to enter into a month-to-month lease arrangement pursuant to which Seattle Center will continue to operate the parking lot until construction begins on the mixed use development project;

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the rents to be paid and the covenants and agreements hereinafter provided which the Landlord and the Tenant agree to keep and perform, the parties hereby agree as follows:

 1. LEASE AND PREMISES.

 Landlord hereby leases to Tenant and Tenant hereby leases from Landlord the following property (the "Premises"):

 Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 12, Block 38, D. T. Denny's 3rd addition to North Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, Page 145, in King County Washington.

 2. TERM.

 The term of this Lease shall be from month-to-month, commencing as of ___________, 2005, and continuing on a month-to-month basis until terminated by Landlord or Tenant upon 30 days' written notice, provided termination shall not occur before September 6, 2005.

 3. RENT.

 Tenant shall pay Landlord on or before the 10th day of each month as Rent for the Premises, seventy percent (70%) of all of Tenant's Gross Receipts from the Premises during the prior calendar month. A statement signed by an authorized representative of Tenant, setting forth Tenant's Gross Receipts for the calendar month or other period in question, shall accompany each payment of Rent.

 "Gross Receipts" means the actual monies collected, expressed in dollars, for all parking charges and all other receipts of business conducted at, in, on, about or from the Premises, whether for cash or credit, including sales and receipts occurring or arising as a result of agreements made off the Premises and relating to Tenant's use of the Premises, excluding, however, any sum collected and remitted for any retail sales tax imposed by any duly constituted governmental authority and separately stated. Tenant will set rates consistent with City Council ordinance. Landlord and Tenant may provide free parking by mutual agreement.

 Tenant shall keep full, true and accurate books of account and records and shall provide the Seattle Center Parking Revenue Report (derived from the Seattle Center Parking Revenue by Facility Total Report and the Daily Parking Receipts Bank Deposit Report) and the Seattle Center Monthly Parking Report showing all Gross Receipts received at, in, from and for the Premises. For purposes of permitting verification by Landlord of the Gross Receipts reported by Tenant, Landlord shall have the right, upon not less than 10 days' notice to Tenant, for a period of 36 months after Landlord receives or should have received Tenant's monthly statement of Gross Receipts, to inspect, audit or cause to be audited Tenant's books and records relating to Gross Receipts for such month at reasonable times at Tenant's place of business. If any such audit discloses that the actual Gross Receipts from Tenant's transactions exceed those reported by more than one percent (1%), then Tenant shall, within 30 days of demand, pay to Landlord as additional Rent the difference between the actual and reported Gross Receipts and interest thereon at the interest rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date the Rent would have been due and payable had Tenant correctly reported its Gross Receipts until the date paid.

 4. USE OF PREMISES.

 Tenant shall use the Premises solely for a public parking lot and for no other uses unless Tenant obtains Landlord's prior consent.

 5. UTILITIES.

 Tenant shall pay all charges for electricity and garbage for the Premises, whether the electricity is separately metered or not. If not separately metered, the parties shall agree on a formula or fixed amount for electrical service for the Premises.

 6. TAXES AND LICENSES.

 Landlord and Tenant acknowledge that neither Landlord nor Tenant is exempt from real estate taxes while these premises are being used as a public parking lot. Property tax shall be the responsibility of the Landlord. All other taxes and license fees shall be the responsibility of the Tenant.

 7. DAMAGES.

 In the event the Premises are damaged through fault of Tenant, Tenant shall promptly repair and restore the Premises to their condition immediately prior to such damage, ordinary wear and tear excepted.

 8. INSURANCE.

 A. Except as provided in Section 8.B., Tenant shall carry, at its sole expense, during the Lease Term, a policy of commercial general liability insurance naming Landlord as an additional insured and covering any and all liability for injury to or death of a person or persons and for damage to property arising out of Tenant or its activities in the use, occupancy or maintenance of the Premises. The policy shall be in an amount of not less than $1,000,000 in the aggregate and Tenant shall provide Landlord with a certificate of insurance evidencing the above-referenced coverage.

 B. Tenant represents that it is self-insured for exposures up to and exceeding $1,000,000. Accordingly, for as long as Tenant self-insures, Tenant will not be providing any insurance as provided in Section 8.A. Tenant agrees to notify Landlord promptly if it ceases self-insurance at least equal to the requirements of Section 8.A.

 9. INDEMNITY.

 Tenant shall indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against any and all claims arising from Tenant's use of the Premises, or from the conduct of Tenant's business or from any activity permitted or suffered by Tenant, or the act or omission of any third party, in, on or about the Premises and from and against all costs, attorneys' fees, expenses and liabilities incurred in the defense of any claim or action or proceeding brought thereon to the extent of Tenant's negligence except for and to the extent of injury or damage resulting from the Landlord's negligent or intentionally wrongful acts or omissions. Tenant further agrees that Landlord shall not be liable for injury to Tenant's business or any loss of income therefrom or from damage to the person or property of Tenant or any other person or entity in and about the Premises, irrespective of the cause of such damage except for and to the extent of injury or damage resulting from Landlord's negligent or intentionally wrongful acts or omissions.

 10. REPAIRS.

 Tenant shall be solely and completely responsible for all maintenance and repairs to the Premises during the Lease Term and shall keep the Premises in same condition as they were at the start of the Term, reasonable wear and tear excepted. At all times, Tenant shall maintain the Premises in good condition and with a neat and swept condition.

 11. ALTERATIONS.

 Tenant shall make no alterations to the Premises without the Landlord's written consent. Tenant will, upon termination or expiration of this Lease, remove any and all alterations or improvements made or installed in, on or about the Premises by or through Tenant if requested by Landlord at the time the alteration or improvement was approved. Any such improvements Landlord does not request to be removed shall remain on the Premises and become the property of Landlord without cost to Landlord.

 12. SIGNS.

 All signs placed by the Tenant on the Premises shall be subject to Landlord's verbal approval.

 13. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING.

 Tenant shall not assign or sublet or license the whole or any part of the Premises without the prior written consent of Landlord, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 13. NOTICES.

 Any demand, request or notice which either party hereto desires or may be required to make or deliver to the other shall be in writing and shall be deemed delivered when personally delivered, or when delivered by private courier service (such as Federal Express), or three (3) days after being deposited in the United States mail, in registered or certified form, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:

 Landlord:

 IS Property Investments LLC

 Attn: Michael Lierman

 2505 Second Avenue, Suite 300

 Seattle, WA 98121

 Tenant:

 Seattle Center

 Attn: Margo Polley

 305 Harrison Street

 Seattle, WA 98109

 or to such other address and person as either party may communicate to the other by like written notice.

 14. LIENS.

 Tenant shall keep the Premises free and clear from any liens against the Premises arising from Tenant's use and occupation thereof. If the Tenant, in the Tenant's discretion and good faith, determines that any such lien should be contested, the Tenant shall, at the Tenant's sole cost and expense, procure and record a lien release bond, in an amount equal to the amount of the claim of the lien, issued by an insurance company acceptable to the Landlord that is authorized to do business in the State of Washington.

 15. ATTORNEYS' FEES.

 In the event of litigation between the parties hereto, declaratory or otherwise, in connection with this Agreement, the prevailing party shall recover its costs and attorneys' fees actually incurred, which shall be determined and fixed by the court as part of the judgment. The parties covenant and agree that they intend by this Section to compensate for attorneys' fees actually incurred by the prevailing party to the particular attorneys involved at such attorneys' then normal hourly rates and that this Section shall constitute a request to the court that such rate or rates be deemed reasonable. If Tenant is involved in any bankruptcy action, Tenant will reimburse Landlord for all attorneys' fees and costs incurred in connection with Tenant's bankruptcy action.

 16. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.

 Tenant shall be fully responsible for obtaining any permits necessary for its use of the Premises and shall cause its business on the Premises to be in full compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations of any governmental entities.

 17. DEFAULT.

 Landlord must notify Tenant of any defaults in the performance of any of its obligations under this Lease. Tenant will have 30 days to remedy the deficiency. If the default is one that, by its nature, is not susceptible to remedy within said 30-day period, then Tenant shall not be in default provided it commence to remedy the default within said 30-day period and diligently pursues the same to completion. If there is disagreement between Landlord and Tenant as to either party's obligations hereunder, the parties agree to engage in a dispute resolution process, whereby both parties negotiate at the lowest level possible. If unsuccessful, negotiation by directors follows. If satisfactory resolution is not achieved within in a reasonable amount of time, either party may terminate this Lease by written notice and pursue any rights and remedies the party may have at law or in equity.

 IS Property Investments LLC,

 A Washington limited liability company

 By:

Name: Michael Lierman

 Its: President

 TENANT:

 SEATTLE CENTER

 A Municipal corporation

 By:

Name: Virginia Anderson

Its: Director

 EXHIBIT G

 FORM OF BARGAIN AND SALE DEED

 FOR VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Grantor"), does hereby grant, bargain, sell and convey to IS PROPERTY INVESTMENTS, LLC, a Washington limited liability company ("Grantee"), that real property situate in the County of King, State of Washington, and more particularly described on Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference (the "Property"), subject only to the exceptions to title described on Exhibit B attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

 Together with all tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances thereto belonging or appertaining and any and all reversions, remainders, rents, issues and profits thereof.

 Dated this _____ day of __________________, 200__.

 SELLER: The City of Seattle

 a Washington municipal corporation

By:

 Its:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _________________________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _____________________________________________ of The City of Seattle. A Washington municipal corporation, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: ________________________

 Notary Public

 Print Name

 My commission expires

 Exhibit A

 to Deed

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION

 Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 12, Block 38, D. T. Denny's 3rd addition to North Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, Page 145, in King County Washington.

 ??

 ??

 ??

 ??

 -24-

 Attachment 1 to Lot 4 Sale Ordinance

 May 2, 2005

 -1-

 Attachment 1 to Lot 4 Sale Ordinance

 May 2, 2005

```
