

********

**Council Bill Number: 115207**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121766**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Seattle City Employees' Retirement System to execute a lease agreement with LHT Corporation for office space in the Pacific Building.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 28, 2005
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Compton)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 7, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 6, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 21, 2005
   
**Committee:** Finance & Budget
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** RETIREMENT-SYSTEM, LEASES, OFFICE-FACILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**115207

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Seattle City Employees' Retirement System to execute a lease agreement with LHT Corporation for office space in the Pacific Building.

 WHEREAS, City-owned facilities cannot accommodate the office space requirements of the Seattle City Employees' Retirement System (SCERS); and

 WHEREAS, the current leased office space in the Seattle Metropolitan Credit Union is inadequate to house the current workforce; and

 WHEREAS, the Pacific Building at 720 Third Avenue is an ideal location for SCERS and has office space available that is adequate in size and configuration; and

 WHEREAS, the proposed lease agreement covers a larger premises (8,226 square feet) than FFD is authorized to execute by Seattle Municipal Code 3.18.160 and requires City Council approval for entry into any lease for more than five thousand square feet of office space;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Retirement Board and Executive Director of the Seattle City Employees' Retirement System, said Director is hereby authorized to execute a lease agreement with LHT Corporation, substantially in the form of Exhibit "1" attached hereto, and providing for occupancy by the City of Seattle of a portion of the real property commonly known as 720 Third Avenue, Seattle, Washington.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect immediately after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit 1: Lease Agreement between LHT Corporation and the Seattle City Employees' Retirement System

 Norm Ruggles

 RET Lease

 03/08/2005

 Version #1

 LEASE AGREEMENT

 PART A - SIGNATURE FORM

 1. PARTIES

 THIS LEASE AGREEMENT, entered into by and between LHT Corporation, a Washington corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "Lessor"), and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, as Lessee (hereinafter referred to as the "City"), a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, WITNESSES THAT:

 2. PREMISES

 The Lessor hereby leases to the City, and the City hereby leases from the Lessor, certain real property commonly known as Suite 1000 in the Pacific Building, 720 Third Avenue in Seattle, King County, Washington that may be further described as follows:

 Lots 1 and 4, Block 27, and the west half of the vacated alley adjoining said lots, all in C.D. Boren's Addition to the City of Seattle, per plat recorded Volume 1 of Plats, Page 25, records of King County, Washington, less the west 9 feet of said Lots 1 and 4 for Third Avenue; SUBJECT TO easements and restrictions of record.

 The Premises is known as Suite 1000 which consists of approximately 8,226 rentable square feet (hereinafter referred to as the "Premises"). The Pacific Building of which the Premises form a part and the real property on which it sits are referred to as the "Property".

 3. PURPOSES

 Premises shall be used as general business offices and related office services for the City of Seattle's retirement benefits, investment planning and consulting. The City hereby acknowledges that the Lessor will not accept alternative City uses, which, in Lessors sole opinion, could materially have an impact on Lessors ability to attract other prospective tenants to the Building.

 4. TERM

 The term of this lease shall be five (5) years, commencing on May 1, 2005 and expiring on April 30, 2010.

 5. RENT

 In consideration of this lease and the Lessor's performance of all covenants and agreements contained herein, the City shall pay to the Lessor as the monthly rental ("Base Rent") for said Premises, the sum of:

 Period Monthly Amount

 May 1, 2005 - April 30, 2006 $ 9,939.75

 May 1, 2006 - April 30, 2007 $10,625.25

 May 1, 2007 - April 30, 2008 $11,310.75

 May 1, 2008 - April 30, 2009 $11,996.25

 May 1, 2009 - April 30, 2010 $12,681.75

 All rent is due within ten (10) calendar days after the first day of each month.

 6. DEPOSIT

 No Security Deposit is required under this Lease Agreement.

 7. UTILITIES

 AND OTHER

 SERVICES

 8.REAL

 PROPERTY

 TAXES

 9. ADDITIONAL

 RENT

 Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B, Section 3 hereof, the City shall pay for the following utilities and other services: Telephone services and telephone installation charges.

 a) Definition of Terms: In addition to the Base Rent, the City shall pay to Lessor increases in this Section. The increase(s) shall be made as provided herein, utilizing the following definitions:

 (i) "Real Property Taxes" shall mean taxes on real property and personal property, including all the City's improvements that are paid for by Lessor and not reimbursed by tenants of the Building, and taxes on Property of the City, as defined in Section a) (iv) that have not been paid by the City directly to the taxing authority; charges and assessments levied with respect to the land, the Building, any improvements, fixtures and equipment and all other property of Lessor, real or personal, used directly in the operation of the Building; and any taxes levied or assessed in addition to or in lieu of, in whole or in part, such real property taxes, or any other tax upon leasing of the Building or rents collected, but not including any federal or state income tax or franchise tax attributable to the Building.

 (ii) "Lease Year" shall mean the twelve (12) month period commencing January 1, and ending December 31.

 (iii) "Base Tax Year" shall mean the Lease Year 2005.

 (iv) "City's Share of Real Property Taxes" shall mean the amount of any increase in Real Property Taxes payable during any Lease Year by Lessor over the amount of Real Property Taxes payable during the Base Tax Year by Lessor multiplied by the City's Percentage of the Building plus any Real Property Taxes attributable to Property of the City, if any. "City's Percentage of the Building" as used herein means the approximate number of rentable square feet in the Premises divided by approximately 130,479 rentable square feet in the Building expressed as a percentage. The initial City's Percentage of the Building is 6.30%. As used herein, "Property of the City" shall include improvements that are paid for by the City and not reimbursed by Lessor and improvements originally paid for by Lessor, the costs of which are reimbursed by the City.

 b) Additional Rent for Estimated Increases in City's Share of Real Property Taxes: Within ninety (90) days after the commencement of each Lease Year (except the Base Tax Year), Lessor shall furnish the City with a written statement setting forth the estimated City's Share of Real Property Taxes for such Lease Year. One-twelfth (1/12th) of the amount, if any, by which such estimated City's Share of Real property Taxes exceeds the Real Property Taxes for the Base Tax Year shall be Additional Rent payable by the City as provided in this Lease Agreement for each month during such Lease Year.

 c) Actual Real Property Taxes: Within ninety (90) days after the close of each Lease Year during the Term hereof, or as soon thereafter as practicable, Lessor shall deliver to the City a written statement setting forth the City's Share of Actual Real Property Taxes during the preceding Lease Year. If such amount for any Lease Year exceeds the amount paid pursuant to Section b) above as Additional Rent for such Lease Year, the city shall pay the amount of such excess to Lessor as added Additional Rent within thirty (30) days after receipt of such statement by Lessor. If such statement shows such amount to be less than the amount paid by the City to Lessor pursuant to Section b) above, then the amount of such overpayment shall be credited by Lessor to the next immediate Rent payable by the City until such overpayment is fully credited, or at the City's option, refunded.

 d) Personal Property Taxes: The City shall pay, prior to delinquency, all Personal Property Taxes payable with respect to all Property of the City located on the Premises or in the Building and shall provide promptly upon request of Lessor, written proof of such payment.

 e) Determinations: the determination of the City's Share of Real Property Taxes and estimates thereof shall be made by Lessor, and shall be reasonably based upon the City's Share of Real Property Taxes as described in a) (iv) above. The calculations shall be made available to City upon request.

 f) End of Term: If this Lease shall expire or terminate on a day other than the last day of a Lease Year, the amount of any adjustment between the City's estimated and actual share of Real Property Taxes shall be prorated on the same basis that the number of days from and including the commencement of such Lease Year to and including such termination date bears to 365; and any amount payable by Lessor to the City or the City to Lessor with respect to such adjustment shall be payable within thirty (30) days after delivery by Lessor to the City of the statement of the City's Share of Real Property Taxes with respect to such Lease Year.

 g) Nonpayment of Additional Rent: In the event of nonpayment of Additional Rent payable by the City hereunder, Lessor shall have the same rights with respect to such nonpayment as it has with respect to any other nonpayment of Rent hereunder.

 a Definition of Terms: In addition to the Base Rent, the City shall pay to Lessor increases in this Section as "Additional Rent". The increase(s) shall be made as provided herein, utilizing the following definitions:

 (i) "Operating Costs" shall include Costs of Utilities and Other Operating Costs.

 (1) "Costs of Utilities" shall mean all expenses paid or incurred by Lessor for electricity, including any surcharges imposed, water, gas, sewers and similar utilities service.

 (2) "Other Operating Costs" shall mean all other expenses paid or incurred by Lessor for maintaining, operating and repairing the Building and the personal property used in conjunction therewith (and no other building owned or operated by or for Lessor), including without limitation, the prorated costs of refuse collection, supplies, janitorial and cleaning services, window washing, landscape maintenance, services of independent contractors, compensation (including employment taxes and fringe benefits) of all persons who perform duties in connection with the operation, maintenance and repair of the Building (excluding compensation applicable to work performed on other properties), its equipment and the Land upon which it is situated, insurance premiums, licenses, permits and inspection fees, customary management fees (not to exceed five percent (5%) of the rent payable by tenants of the building), legal and accounting expenses and any other expense or charge whether or not hereinabove described which in accordance with generally accepted accounting and management practices would be considered an expense of maintaining, operating or repairing the Building, excluding:

 a) Costs of any special services rendered to individual tenants (including the City) for which a special charge is made

 b) Real Property Taxes (as defined in the Lease); and

 c) Depreciation or amortization of costs required to be capitalized in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices (except Operating Costs shall include amortization of capital improvements made subsequent to the initial development of the Building which are designed with a reasonable probability of improving the operating efficiency of the Building, provided that such amortization costs shall not exceed expected savings in operating costs resulting from such capital improvements).

 (ii) "Lease Year" shall mean the twelve-month period commencing January 1, and ending December 31.

 (iii) "Base Services Year" shall mean the Lease Year 2005.

 (iv) "Actual Costs" shall mean the actual expenses paid or incurred by Lessor for Operating Costs during any Lease Year of the Term hereof.

 (v) "Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises" shall mean the City's share of the Actual Costs determined by the City's Percentage of the Building pursuant to Section c) immediately below. "City's Percentage of the Building" as used herein means the approximate number of rentable square feet in the Premises divided by the approximate 130,479 rentable square feet in the Building expressed as a percentage. The initial City's Percentage of the Building, is 6.30%.

 (vi) "Estimate Costs Allocable to the Premises" shall mean Lessor's estimate of Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises for the following Lease Year to be given by Lessor to the City pursuant to Section c) immediately below.

 b) Base Amount: Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises for the Base Services Year shall be deemed the "Base Amount" for purposes of this Section; provided, however, that for purposes of determining any Additional Rent for Operating Costs, Lessor shall estimate, to the extent required, the Base Amount in connection with the statement furnished in accordance with Section c) immediately below; provided, however, that payments shall be further adjusted as appropriate at the time the Actual Costs are determined in accordance with Section d) below.

 c) Additional Rent for Estimated Increases in Costs: Within ninety (90) days of the commencement of each Lease Year (except the Base Services Year) during the Term hereof, or as soon thereafter as reasonably practicable, Lessor shall furnish to the City a written statement of the Estimated Costs Allocable to the Premises for such Lease Year, and a calculation of the Additional Rent as follows: One-twelfth (1/12) of the amount, if any, by which such Estimated Costs Allocable to the Premises for such Lease Year exceed the Base Amount shall be Additional Rent payable by the City as provided herein for each month during such Lease Year. If at anytime or times during such Lease Year it appears to Lessor that Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises fur such Lease Year will vary from Lessor's estimate by more than 5 percent (5%) on an annualized basis, Lessor may, by written notice to the City, reasonably revise its estimate for such Lease Year and Additional Rent payments to Lessor for such Lease Year shall be based on such revised estimate.

 d). Actual Costs: Within ninety (90) days after the close of each Lease Year during the Term hereof, or as soon thereafter as practicable, Lessor shall deliver to the City a written statement setting forth the City's Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises during the preceding Lease Year. If such costs for any Lease Year exceed Estimated Costs Allocable to the Premises paid by the City to Lessor pursuant to the immediately preceding Section c) the City shall pay the amount of such excess to Lessor as added Additional Rent within thirty (30) days after receipt of such statement by the City. If such statement shows such costs to be less than the amount paid by the City to Lessor pursuant to the immediately preceding Section c), then the amount of such overpayment by the City shall be credited by Lessor to the next immediate Rent payable by the City.

 e) Determinations: The determination of Actual Costs and Estimated Costs Allocable to the Premises shall be made by Lessor, but shall be reasonable and the calculations thereof shall be made available to the City upon written request.

 f) End of Term: If this Lease shall expire or terminate on a day other than the last day Lease Year, the amount of any adjustment between Estimated and Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises with respect to the Lease Year in which such expiration or termination occurs shall be prorated on the same basis that the number of days from and including the commencement date of such Lease Year to and including such expiration or termination date bears to 365; and any amount payable by Lessor to the City or the City to Lessor with respect to such adjustment shall be payable within thirty (30) days after delivery by Lessor to the City of the statement of Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises with respect to such Lease Year.

 g) Further Adjustment: In the event the average occupancy level of the Building for the Base Services Year and/or any subsequent Lease Year was not ninety-five percent (95%) or more of full occupancy, then the Actual Costs for such year shall be proportionately adjusted by Lessor to reflect those costs which would have occurred should the Building have been ninety-five (95%) percent occupied during such Lease Year.

 h) Base Rent: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section or in the Section entitled "Real Property Taxes", the Rent payable by the City shall in no event be less than the Rent specified in this Lease Agreement.

 i) Nonpayment of Additional Rent: In the event of nonpayment of Additional Rent payable by the City hereunder, Lessor shall have the same rights with respect to such nonpayment as it has with respect to any other nonpayment of Rent hereunder.

 10. AGREEMENT

 CONTENTS

 This lease consists of this Part A - Signature Form plus Part B - General Terms and Conditions, both of which, by this reference, are incorporated herein, and embodies the entire agreement of the parties hereto. There are no other understandings or agreements, written or oral, between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof.

 11. EFFECTUATION OF AGREEMENT

 In order to be effective, this lease must be (1) signed by an authorized representative of the Lessor and returned to the City at the address set forth below and (2) signed by the Executive Director of the Seattle City Employees' Retirement System pursuant to ordinance authority.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have affixed their signature below:

 LESSEE, Seattle City Employees' Retirement System

 By_________________________________

 Norman L. Ruggles

 Executive Director

 Seattle City Employees' Retirement System

 Authorizing Ordinance ______________

 City's address for all communications:

 Seattle City Employees' Retirement SystemExecutive Director

 720 Third Avenue, Suite 1000

 Seattle, Washington 98104

 LESSOR, LHT Corporation, a Washington corporation

 By_________________________________

 H. Martin Smith III; Principal Martin

 Smith Inc, Agent

 By: ________________________________

 David K.Y. Tang

 Counsel

 Lessor's address for all communications:

 Pacific Building

 c/o GVA Kidder Mathews

 601 Union Street

 Suite 4720

 Seattle, WA 98101

 Attn: Jim Lovsted

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Norman L. Ruggles is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the Executive Director of the Seattle City Employees' Retirement System of THE CITY OF SEATTLE to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: _____________________________

 _____________________________________________

 (Notary Signature)

 _____________________________________________

 (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at Seattle. My appointment expires ___________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that H. Martin Smith III is the individual who appeared before me, and said individual acknowledged that (s)he signed this instrument, on oath stated that (s)he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _______________ of the _______________ to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: _____________________________

 ________________________________________________

 (Notary Signature)

 ________________________________________________

 (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at

 My appointment expires ______________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that David K.Y. Tang is the individual who appeared before me, and said individual acknowledged that (s)he signed this instrument, on oath stated that (s)he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _______________ of the _______________ to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: _____________________________

 ________________________________________________

 (Notary Signature)

 ________________________________________________

 (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at

 My appointment expires ______________.

 LEASE AGREEMENT

 PART B - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 1. POSSESSION. In the event of the inability of the Lessor to deliver possession of the Premises, or any portion thereof, within sixty (60) days of the Commencement Date, , the City, at its option may elect to retain the lease and insist upon possession or to cancel this lease as a result of the Lessor's failure to deliver possession. In the event the City elects to cancel, the Lessor shall be liable for incremental costs and other damages incurred by the City in acquiring comparable property. In the event the City elects to retain the lease, the City shall not be liable for any rent or other expense related to the Premises until such time as the Lessor can deliver possession. In the event that, by mutual agreement, the City takes possession of the Premises, or any part thereof, prior to the commencement of the specified term of this lease, the City shall pay as rent for that additional period that percentage of the monthly rent payable under Part A hereof, prorated on a daily basis, that is equivalent to the percentage of the floor area of the Premises actually occupied by the City during said period.

 2. ACCESS. The City shall allow the Lessor or the Lessor's agent free access at all reasonable times to said Premises to inspect, clean, or make repairs, additions or alterations to the Premises or any connected property owned by or under the control of the Lessor. This provision shall not be construed as an agreement on the part of the Lessor to make such repairs, additions or alterations nor a waiver of the City's right of quiet enjoyment. All such work by the Lessor shall be undertaken in a way so as to minimize interference with the City's use of the Premises.

 3. UTILITIES AND OTHER SERVICES.

 a) Unless otherwise specified in Part A, hereof, the Lessor, at the Lessor's sole expense, shall provide or shall otherwise pay for, when due, all costs for providing all utilities and other services on or to the Premises including but not limited to elevator service, electricity, gas, water, sewer, garbage, heating and cooling or air conditioning, janitorial, and security. The City shall pay all charges for utility installations and modifications thereto occasioned by the City's requirements.

 b) The City may not, except with the Lessor's prior written approval, use electricity for lighting in excess of the City of Seattle Energy Code in the Leased Premises. In addition, City may not use electricity for other purposes in excess of that normally used by general office tenants, except with Lessor's prior written consent. If such consent is given, City shall pay Lessor an amount equal to the sum paid by the Lessor for such additional energy. Unless this amount can be mutually agreed upon between the parties hereto, it shall be determined by measurements through metering equipment furnished and installed by the Lessor at City's cost, and the additional cost of electrical energy so required by the City shall be computed at the marginal rate charged the Lessor by the utility company. In no event shall the City's use of electricity exceed the capacity of the existing feeders to the Building or the risers or wiring installation, and the Lessor may prohibit the use of any electrical equipment that in the Lessor's opinion will overload such wiring or interfere with the use thereof by other tenants in the Building. If Lessor consents to use of equipment requiring such changes, City shall pay the cost of installing any additional risers, panels or other facilities that may be necessary to furnish energy to the Premises.

 4. CARE OF PREMISES. The Premises shall at all times be kept and used in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington and ordinances of The City of Seattle, and in accordance with all duly authorized directions, rules, and regulations of the Health Officer, Fire Marshall or other proper officer of The City of Seattle; and the City will not permit any waste, damage or injury to the Premises, use or permit in said Premises anything that will increase the rate of fire insurance thereon, maintain anything that may be dangerous to life or limb, permit any objectionable noise or odor to escape or to be emitted from said Premises, or permit anything to be done upon said Premises that in any way will tend to create a nuisance.

 5. MAINTENANCE - REPAIRS. The Premises have been inspected by both parties and are accepted by the City in their existing condition as of the commencement date of this lease, without reservation except for latent defects or faulty construction of the Premises not discoverable by inspection at the time of taking possession. Except as otherwise provided for herein, the Lessor, at its sole expense, shall keep and preserve the Premises in good repair, including but not limited to all structural and non-structural parts thereof, elevators, plumbing, heating, cooling, and electrical, gas and other utility systems; and other equipment and appurtenances of the Premises and the structure of which the Premises form a part.

 6. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION. In the event the Premises are damaged by fire, earthquake, act of war, or other extraordinary casualty to such an extent as to render the same untenantable in whole or in a substantial part thereof, or are destroyed, it shall be optional with the Lessor to repair or rebuild the same, and after the happening of any such event, the City shall give the Lessor or the Lessor's agent written notice thereof within forty-eight (48) hours of such occurrence. The Lessor shall have not more than ten (10) days after the date of such notification to notify the City in writing of the Lessor's intentions to repair or rebuild said Premises; and if the Lessor elects to repair or rebuild said Premises, the Lessor shall prosecute the work of such repairing or rebuilding without unnecessary delay. During any period in which the Premises are rendered unfit for occupancy because of any such casualty, the rent of said Premises shall be abated in the same ratio that the portion of the Premises rendered for the time being unfit for occupancy bears to the whole of the Premises. In the event the building in which the Premises are located is destroyed or is damaged (even though the Premises hereby leased is not damaged thereby) to such an extent that, in the opinion of the Lessor, it is not practicable to repair or rebuild, then the Lessor may, at its option, terminate the lease by providing written notice thereof to the City within thirty (30) days after such damage or destruction has been determined to be irreparable.

 7. HAZARDOUS WASTE AND MATERIALS. The City shall not knowingly dispose of or knowingly allow the release of any hazardous waste or materials in the Premises, or in any improvements placed on the Premises. The City represents and warrants to Lessor that the City's intended use of the Premises does not involve the use, production, disposal or bringing on to the Premises of any hazardous waste or materials. As used herein, the term "hazardous waste or materials" includes any substance, waster or material defined or designated a hazardous, toxic or dangerous (or any similar term) by any federal, state or local statute, regulation, rule or ordinance now or hereafter in effect, but does not include office supplies or cleaning supplies. The City shall promptly comply with all statutes, regulations and ordinances, and with all orders, decrees or judgment s of governmental authorities or courts having jurisdiction, relating to the City's use, collection, treatment, disposal, storage, control, removal or cleanup of hazardous waste or materials in or on the Leased Premises or incorporated in any improvement, at the City's expense; except that City shall not be responsible for removal or cleanup of hazardous waste or materials not placed onto the Premises by the City or its agents. The City shall notify Lessor immediately of any known release by the City of any hazardous waste or materials on the Leased Premises.

 After notice to the City and a reasonable opportunity for the City to effect such compliance, Lessor may, but is not obligated to, enter upon the Premises and take such actions and incur such costs and expenses to effect such compliance as it deems advisable to protect its interest in the Premises; provided, however, that Lessor shall not be obligated to give the City notice and an opportunity to effect such compliance if (1) such delay might result in material adverse harm to Lessor or the Premises, (2) the City has already had actual knowledge of the situation and a reasonable opportunity to effect such compliance, or (3) an emergency exists. Whether or not the City has actual knowledge of the release of hazardous waste or materials on the Premises as a result of the City's use of the Premises, the City shall reimburse Lessor for the full amount of all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Lessor in connection with compliance activities undertaken by or for Lessor as a consequence of a City act or omission: provided, City shall not reimburse Lessor for costs and expenses incurred by Lessor related to hazardous waste or materials not placed onto the Premises or Property by the City.

 The City agrees to indemnify and hold Lessor harmless against any and all losses, liabilities, suits, obligations, fines, damages, judgments, penalties, claims, charges, cleanup costs, remedial actions, costs and expenses (including without limitations, attorneys' fees and disbursements) that may be imposed on, incurred or paid by, or asserted against Lessor of the Premises by reason of, or in connection with the acts or omissions of the City or any other person or entity acting through or on account of the City, resulting in the release of any hazardous waste or materials in or on the Premises; provided, however, that City shall not indemnify and hold Lessor harmless if the hazardous waste or materials were not placed onto the Premises or the Property by City or any person or entity acting through or on account of the City.

 Lessor agrees to hold City harmless from and against any and all damages, charges, cleanup costs, remedial actions, costs and expenses, which may be imposed on, incurred or paid by, or asserted against City, the Premises or the Property by reason of, or in connection with (1) any misrepresentation, breach of warranty, or other default by Landlord under this Lease, or (2) the acts or omissions of Lessor or its authorized representatives resulting in the release of any hazardous waste or materials onto the Premises or the Property.

 The City further acknowledges that Lessor has not made any warranty or representation covering the presence of absence of any hazardous waste or materials in or on the Premises, any adjacent property, or in any improvements placed in the Premises. If Lessor is required by any statute, regulation, order, decree, judgment, or other law to take any action to remove or abate any hazardous waste or materials, or if Lessor deems it necessary to conduct special maintenance or testing procedures with regard to any hazardous waste or materials, or to remove or abate such hazardous waste or materials, Lessor may take only such action or conduct such procedures (1) after prior written notice to City and (2) in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere with the City's use and enjoyment of the Premises.

 8. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 (a) General Requirement. The Lessor shall perform and comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 (b) Licenses and Similar Authorizations. The Lessor and/or the City, when applicable, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement, all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 (c) Taxes. The Lessor shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies and assessments on the Premises.

 (d) Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action. The Lessor shall comply with all Federal, State and local laws and ordinances prohibiting discrimination with regard to race, color, national origin, ancestry, creed, religion, political ideology, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap.

 (e) Compliance with Seattle's "Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance" Required: Each party is required to comply with the Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance of The City of Seattle (Ordinance 119601), as amended. Conduct made unlawful by that ordinance constitutes a breach of contract. Engaging in an unfair contracting practice may also result in the imposition of a civil fine or forfeiture under the Seattle Criminal Code as well as various civil remedies.

 9. INDEMNIFICATION. The Lessor shall hold City harmless from all claims for accident or injury caused to persons or property by the fault or neglect of the Lessor or any of its employees or agents; or occurring in, on, or about any portion of the structure of which the Premises form a part that is under the control of the Lessor; or caused by any fault or defect inherent in said structure or any defect in or malfunction thereof not discernable by reasonable inspection. The City will hold the Lessor harmless from all claims for accident or injury caused to persons or property by the fault or neglect of the City or any of its employees or agents, to the extent of the fault or neglect of the City. All personal property of the City on said Premises shall be at the risk of and the responsibility of the City.

 10. SIGNS. The City may place identification signs upon the Premises, subject to the prior approval of the Lessor; and permission to place such signs shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Lessor. The Lessor shall have the right to place and maintain "For Rent" signs in a conspicuous place on said Premises and to show the Premises to prospective tenants for thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of this lease.

 11. ALTERATIONS, ADDITIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS.

 (a) The Lessor shall provide an initial Tenant Improvement Allowance to the City, of Ten Dollars per square foot ($82,260.00) to fund initial Tenant Improvements to the Premises. The Lessor's Managing Agent shall supervise Construction Work to the Premises to include new carpeting, repainting of all drywall surfaces, new walls and doors per mutual plan, and interior modifications per prescribed Building Standards pursuant to a mutually agreed upon space plan developed by Burgess Weaver Architects, approved for construction prior to the commencement of improvements work by both Lessor and the City. Lessor shall substantially complete all initial Tenant Improvement Work prior to the Commencement Date. The Tenant Improvement Allowance shall not be use for furniture, cabling or wiring within the Premises, excepting a security camera and doorbell at the front entry to the Premises as agreed upon by Lessor and the City. The City shall not make or cause to be made any alteration, addition or improvement to said Premises without first obtaining the written consent of the Lessor for such work. Any alteration, addition or improvement that is made solely for the convenience of the City or any of its employees or agents, or of the program to be conducted on the Premises shall be at the sole cost and expense of the City or the program being conducted on the Premises except for an alteration, addition or improvement occasioned by inherent damage or a latent defect in the Premises or of the structure in which the Premises are located, the cost of which alteration, addition or improvement shall be as agreed upon by the City and the Lessor.

 (b) The Lessor shall pay the cost of all alterations, additions, and improvements initiated for the Lessor's convenience, and save the City free and harmless from damage, loss or expense arising out of said alterations performed by the Lessor or on its behalf.

 (c) If any of the alterations, additions and improvements as installed by the City may be removed without disturbance, molestation, or injury to the Premises, the City at its option, may remove or cause to be removed said improvements at the City's own expense or may surrender the same with the Premises to remain as a part thereof and to become the property of the Lessor upon the expiration or termination of this lease. In the event said improvements are surrendered, the Lessor and the City shall agree as to their value, and if they constitute a benefit to the Premises, compensation in the agreed amount therefor shall be made to the City within fifteen (15) days of said surrender. If the City and the Lessor cannot agree upon compensation for said benefit to the Premises, the City shall remove said alteration, addition and improvement, exercising due caution and care to minimize damage to the Premises. The Lessor shall accept responsibility for the minimal repair resulting from said improvement removal.

 (d) The City shall not without the written consent of the Lessor, operate or install any electrical equipment or machinery (other than ordinary office equipment), or replace or relocate any electric light fixtures.

 12. TERMINATION.

 (a) Notwithstanding any other provision herein, in the event that either party to this lease defaults in the performance of any of the terms, provisions, covenants and agreements to be kept, observed and performed as provided in the following sections:

 Part A - TERM Part B - section3 UTILITIES AND OTHER SERVICES

 RENT section4 CARE OF PREMISES

 section5 MAINTENANCE-REPAIRS

 and such default is not corrected, or in the event repairs take more than thirty days, reasonably commenced, within thirty (30) days after the receipt of written notice thereof from the other party, then the non-breaching party may, at its option, immediately terminate this lease, without notice or other proceedings, and in such event the Lessor may also re-enter and take possession of the Premises. Whether or not the non-breaching party chooses to terminate, the non- breaching party may also obtain damages and all remedies available under the laws of the State of Washington. Damages and all remedies available under the laws of the State of Washington may be claimed for a default in the performance of the other lease obligations, but such default shall not be cause for termination of this lease unless such default is repeated upon three or more occasions and a notice to comply is provided after each such instance.

 (b) It is understood that funds for the payment of the rent herein are allocated out of monies received by the City from tax sources and/or other governmental entities and that funding for the program that occupies the Premises can be increased, changed, decreased, or eliminated by executive or legislative action. Therefore, it is agreed by the Lessor and the City that notwithstanding any other provision herein, in the event said funding and/or program is increased, changed, decreased, or eliminated, or in the judgment of the executive or legislative authority of the City, continuation of the lease to its full term would be an unnecessary expenditure of public funds, then the City may terminate this lease without further obligation to the Lessor excepting the payment of unamortized brokerage costs and tenant improvements, amortized at eight percent over the sixty month lease term, after the City has provided the Lessor with written notice of such termination at least ninety (90) days prior to the effective date thereof and documentation of such executive or legislative action.

 13. SURRENDER OF PREMISES. Upon the expiration or termination of this lease, including any extensions thereof, whichever is earlier, the City shall quit and surrender said Premises and all keys thereto, without notice and in as good condition as received at the commencement of the term hereof except for ordinary wear and tear; damage or destruction by fire or other casualty or circumstances uncontrollable by the City; property damaged, removed, or destroyed by the Lessor or its agents; latent defects or faulty construction of the structure of which the Premises comprise a part, not discoverable by inspection at the time of taking possession; and alterations, additions or improvements made to the Premises by the City.

 14. ADJUDICATION. This lease shall be construed under all of the applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the United States of America, the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle. In the case of a dispute between the parties, jurisdiction over such dispute shall be with the Superior Court of King County, Washington.

 15. NOTICES. All notices to be given by either of the parties hereto to the other party, including but not limited to invoices, shall be in writing and may either be delivered personally or may be deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, as either certified or regular mail, addressed as specified in Part A hereof or to such other respective addresses as either party may from time to time designate in writing.

 16. SUBORDINATION AND ATTORNMENT; MORTGAGEE PROTECTION.

 a) Subordination: At the request of Lessor, City shall promptly execute and delivery all instruments which may be appropriate to subordinate this Lease Agreement to any existing or future mortgagees or deeds of trust on the Building or on the leasehold interest held by Lessor, and to any extensions, renewals thereof; provided, that the mortgagee or beneficiary, as the case may be, shall agree, in exchange for the agreement of City to attorn to such mortgagee or beneficiary, to recognize this Lease Agreement in the event of foreclosure if City is not in material default at such time.

 b) City's Certificate. City shall at any time and from time to time upon not less than ten (10) day's prior written notice from Lessor execute, acknowledge and deliver to Lessor a statement, to the extent true, in writing (i) certifying that this Lease Agreement is unmodified and in full force and effect (or, if modified, stating the nature of such modification and certifying that this Lease Agreement as so modified is in full force and effect), and the date to which the rental and other charges are paid in advance, if any, and (ii) acknowledging that there are not, to City's knowledge, any uncured defaults on the part of the Lessor hereunder, or specifying such defaults if any are claimed, and (iii) setting forth the date of commencement of rents and expiration of the Term hereof. Any such statement may be relied upon by a prospective purchaser or encumbrancer of all or any portion of the Building.

 c) Mortgagee Protection Clause. City agrees to give any mortgagees or deed of trust holders, by registered or certified mail, a copy of any notice of default served upon the Lessor, provided that prior to such notice City has been notified in writing of the name and addresses of such mortgagees or deed of trust holders. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Lease Agreement, the Lessor shall not be in default under any provision of this Lease Agreement unless written notice specifying such default is given to Lessor and to all persons known by City who have an interest in all or part of the Building as mortgagee and/or deed of trust beneficiary, and the provisions of Section 12 have been complied with. City further agrees as follows: (i) if Lessor fails to cure or commence the cure of such default within the time period allowed under Section 12 above, then a mortgagee or deed of trust beneficiary shall have an additional thirty (30) days within which to cure such default; and (ii) if such default cannot be cured within that time, then a mortgagee or deed of trust beneficiary shall have such additional time as may be necessary if, within such additional thirty (30) days, any mortgagee or deed of trust beneficiary has commenced and is diligently pursuing the remedies necessary to cure such default (including, but not limited to, commencement of foreclosure proceedings if necessary to affect such cure), in which this event this Lease Agreement shall not be terminated if such remedies are being so diligently pursued.

 17. RELATIONSHIP. In no event shall the City be construed or held to have become in any way or for any purpose a partner, associate, or joint venturer of the Lessor or any party associated with the Lessor in the conduct of the Lessor's business or otherwise. This lease does not constitute the Lessor as the agent or legal representative of the City for any purpose whatsoever.

 18. AMENDMENTS. The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to renegotiate any and all of the provisions hereof from time to time as may be necessary and to amend this lease accordingly; Provided, however, that no alteration or modification of the terms or conditions hereof shall be valid and binding unless made in writing and signed by the authorized representative of the parties hereto.

 19. NO WAIVER OF DEFAULT. The City does not waive full compliance with the terms and conditions of this lease by the payment of rent. No waiver of default by either party of any of the terms, covenants, and conditions hereof to be performed, kept and observed by the other party shall be construed as, or operated as, a waiver of any subsequent default or of any of the terms, covenants, and conditions herein contained, to be performed, kept and observed by the other party.

 20. BINDING EFFECT. This lease shall be binding upon the heirs, successors, assigns, and all other parties legally empowered with signatory rights of any or all of the parties hereto.

 21. INVALIDITY OF PROVISIONS. Should any term, provision, condition or other portion of this lease be held to be inoperative, invalid or void, the same shall not affect any other term, provision, condition or other portion of this lease; and the remainder of this lease shall be effective as if such term, provision, condition or portion had not been contained herein.

 22. OPTION TO EXTEND. Lessor hereby grants to City the right, at its option, to extend the Term for a period of five (5) years commencing May 1, 2010, and expiring April 30, 2015, (the "Extended Term") upon each and all of the following terms and conditions:

 (a) City gives to Lessor, and Lessor actually receives, at least nine (9) months (but not more than twelve (12) months) prior to the Expiration Date a written notice (the "Notice of Exercise") of the exercise of the option to extend the Term, time being of the essence (i.e., the Notice of Exercise must be received by Lessor between May 1, 2009 and July 31, 2009. If the Notice of Exercise is not so given and received, then this option shall automatically expire and this Lease shall terminate on the Expiration Date (April 30, 2010).

 (b) City is not in material default under this Lease either at the time the Notice of Exercise is given and received or as of the date that the Extended Term would commence.

 (c) All of the terms and conditions of this Lease shall apply, except where specifically modified by this option.

 (d) The Minimum Monthly Rent payable during the option term shall be the Market Rate on the date the option term commences.

 (e) The term "Market Rate" shall mean the annual amount per rentable square foot that a willing, comparable renewal tenant would pay and a willing, comparable lessor of a similar office building would accept at arm's length for similar space, giving appropriate consideration to the following matters: (i) annual rental rates per rentable square foot; (ii) the type of escalation clauses (including, but without limitation, operating expense, real estate taxes, and CPI) and the extent of liability under the escalation clauses (i.e., whether determined on a "net lease" basis or by increases over a particular base year or base dollar amount); (iii) rent abatement provisions reflecting free rent and/or no rent during the lease term; (iv) length of lease term; (v) size and location of premises being leased; (vi) the amount of any tenant improvement or refurbishment allowances being provided by similar landlords to similar renewal tenants and (vii) other generally applicable terms and conditions of tenancy for similar space. The Market Rate may also designate periodic rental increases, a new Base Year and similar economic adjustments. The Market Rate shall be the Market Rate in effect as of the beginning of the option period, even though the determination may be made in advance of that date, and the parties may use recent trends in rental rates in determining the proper Market Rate as of the beginning of the option period.

 (f) If City exercises the Extension Option, Lessor shall determine the Market Rate by using its good faith judgment. Lessor shall provide City with written notice of such amount within fifteen (15) days after City exercises its Extension Option. City shall have fifteen (15) days ("City's Review Period") after receipt of Lessor's notice of the new rental within which to accept such rental. In the event City fails to accept in writing such rental proposal by Lessor, then such proposal shall be deemed rejected, and Lessor and City shall attempt to agree upon such Market Rate, using their best good faith efforts. If Lessor and City fail to reach agreement within thirty (30) days following City's Review Period ("Outside Agreement Date"), then each party shall place in a separate sealed envelope their final proposal as to the Market Rate, and such determination shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with subsections (i) through (v) below. In the event that Lessor fails to timely generate the initial notice of Lessor's opinion of the Market Rate, then City may commence such negotiations by providing the initial notice, in which event Lessor shall have fifteen (15) days ("Lessor's Review Period") after receipt of City's notice of the new rental within which to accept such rental. In the event Lessor fails to accept in writing such rental proposed by City, then such proposal shall be deemed rejected, and Lessor and City shall attempt in good faith to agree upon such Market Rate, using their best good faith efforts. If Lessor and City fail to reach agreement within thirty (30) days following Lessor's Review Period (which shall be, in such event, the "Outside Agreement Date" in lieu of the above definition of such date), then each party shall place in a separate sealed envelope their final proposal as to Market Rate, and such determination shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with subsections (i) through (v) below.

 Arbitration of Market Rate Disputes

 (i) A representative of Lessor and a representative of City shall meet with each other within five (5) business days after the Outside Agreement Date and exchange their sealed envelopes and then open such envelopes in each other's presence. If Lessor and City do not mutually agree upon the market rate within one (1) business day of the exchange and opening of envelopes, then, within ten (10) business days of the exchange and opening of envelopes, City may withdraw its Notice of Exercise or Lessor and City shall agree upon and jointly appoint a single arbitrator who shall by profession be a real estate broker or agent who shall have been active over the five (5) year period ending on the date of such appointment in the leasing of commercial office buildings similar to the Premises in the geographical area of the Premises. Neither Lessor nor City shall consult with such broker or agent as to his or her opinion as to the market rate prior to the appointment. The determination of the arbitrator shall be limited solely to the issue of whether Lessor's or City's submitted Market Rate for the premises is the closest to the actual Market Rate for the Premises as determined by the arbitrator, taking into account the requirements for determining Market Rate set forth herein. Such arbitrator may hold such hearings and require such briefs as the arbitrator, in his or her sole discretion, determines is necessary. In addition, Lessor or City may submit to the arbitrator with a copy to the other party within five (5) business days after the appointment of the arbitrator any market data and additional information such party deems relevant to the determination of the market rate ("RR Data"), and the other party may submit a reply in writing within five (5) business days after receipt of such RR Data.

 (ii) The arbitrator shall, within thirty (30) days of his or her appointment, reach a decision as to whether the parties shall use Lessor's or City's submitted Market Rate and shall notify Lessor and City of such determination.

 (iii) The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon Lessor and City.

 (iv) If Lessor and City fail to agree upon and appoint an arbitrator, then the appointment of the arbitrator shall be made by the presiding judge of the any court having jurisdiction over the parties.

 (v) The cost of the arbitration shall be paid by Lessor and City equally.

 EXHIBIT " 1 "

```
