

********

**Council Bill Number: 115313**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121902**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Department of Parks and Recreation to accept funds in the sum of Five Million ($5,000,000) Dollars from City Investors Inc, through the Seattle Parks Foundation, and authorizing the execution of an Agreement between the City of Seattle and City Investors Inc, regarding said funds, and appropriating the funds and providing the Department of Parks and Recreation with the appropriate expenditure authority to complete the initial phase of South Lake Union Park construction as agreed to in the terms of said Agreement.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 6, 2005
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 16, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 12, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** South Lake Union Park Development project funding

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 11, 2005
   
**Committee:** Parks, Neighborhoods & Education
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** SOUTH-LAKE-UNION, LAND-ACQUISITION, PARKS, DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 112046, 113153, 115349, 119944, 120499, 119944; Res 28444, 30206

**Fiscal Note:**115313

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Department of Parks and Recreation to accept funds in the sum of Five Million ($5,000,000) Dollars from City Investors Inc, through the Seattle Parks Foundation, and authorizing the execution of an Agreement between the City of Seattle and City Investors Inc, regarding said funds, and appropriating the funds and providing the Department of Parks and Recreation with the appropriate expenditure authority to complete the initial phase of South Lake Union Park construction as agreed to in the terms of said Agreement.

 WHEREAS, Seattle citizens have envisioned the creation of an accessible waterfront park at the south end of Lake Union ever since the Olmsted Park Plan was developed more than one hundred years ago; and

 WHEREAS, the 1998 South Lake Union Neighborhood Plan emphasized the development of the South Lake Union Park as a top priority; and

 WHEREAS, Resolution 30080 authorized the property disposition process that led to the sale, pursuant to Ordinance 120411, of City property in South Lake Union and set forth many policy objectives that continue to guide City actions; and

 WHEREAS, construction of South Lake Union Park will be undertaken in phases as funds become available, and the City intends to continue its efforts to secure the necessary funding from various funding sources to fully implement all elements of the Park Plan; and

 WHEREAS, the City will work closely with the Seattle Parks Foundation, which has committed to raise $10 million for the Park's development; and

 WHEREAS, City Investors Inc. is committed to advancing the campaign for the development of South Lake Union Park by providing up to $10 million toward the cost of park improvements; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle and City Investors wish to memorialize the terms of their understanding and seek Seattle City Council approval of a binding Agreement; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Mayor or his designee is hereby authorized to enter into an agreement ("Agreement") substantially in the form of Exhibit 1 to this Ordinance, to accept from City Investors Inc., through the Seattle Parks Foundation, the sum of Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) with a subsequent Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) in funds to the development of South Lake Union Park upon the conditions set forth in the Agreement.

 Section 2. The Department of Parks and Recreation is hereby authorized to accept, when paid, the initial Five Million ($5,000,000) from City Investors Inc through the Seattle Parks Foundation, for the initial phase of construction of the South Lake Union Park Development Project (K733134) as described in Section 1, Attachment B, of the Agreement. Funds are to be deposited to the 2000 Parks Levy Fund (33850).

 Section 3. Contingent upon execution of the Agreement authorized in Section 1, the expenditure allowance in the 2005 Adopted Budget for the Department of Parks and Recreation is increased by the appropriation, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) to support the South Lake Union Park Development project (K733134) in the Department of Parks and Recreation's 2005- 2010 Adopted Capital Improvement Program, as described in the following table:

 Fund Department Budget Control Level/CIP Amount Program

 2000 Parks Parks and 2000 Parks Levy-Major $5,000,000 Levy Fund Recreation Park Development (33850) (K723004)

 Any amounts unspent and unencumbered shall automatically carry forward from year to year until spent or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit 1. Agreement Between the City of Seattle and City Investors Inc. Ryan/Sherwood OPM SLU DPR Accept City Investors Funds ORD June 23, 2005 Version 1a

 3

 Exhibit 1 AGREEMENT Between THE CITY OF SEATTLE And CITY INVESTORS INC. Regarding Funding for Improvements to South Lake Union Park

 This Agreement ("AGREEMENT") is executed this _____ day of June, 2005, by CITY INVESTORS INC. ("CI"), and THE CITY OF SEATTLE acting by and through its Mayor ("City").

 RECITALS

 A. Seattle citizens have envisioned the creation of an accessible waterfront park at the south end of Lake Union ever since the Olmsted Park Plan was developed more than one hundred years ago.

 B. The 1998 South Lake Union Neighborhood Plan emphasized the development of South Lake Union Park ("SLU Park") as a top priority. The Plan also highlighted the need to improve pedestrian and transit access to SLU Park.

 C. City Council Resolution 30080 adopted in November 1999 authorized the property disposition process that led to the sale of City property in South Lake Union. The resolution also set forth a number of policy objectives that continue to guide City actions. These objectives included creating a safe and active pedestrian environment between SLU Park and the surrounding neighborhood.

 D. Pursuant to a written Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of June 2001, (the "City/CI Purchase Agreement"), the City sold property described in Resolution 30080 to CI, and among other things, CI agreed in Section 6.2 of that Agreement to develop new cultural space within the South Lake Union neighborhood.

 E. City Council Resolution 30610 adopted on June 9, 2003 affirmed the City of Seattle's commitment to making the South Lake Union area the region's most competitive location for biotech research and other innovative entrepreneurial high-tech industries. In order to fulfill this vision the resolution expressed the City's support for making Mercer/Valley improvements that enhance the development potential of SLU Park and for preserving and improving open space critical to the livability, vitality and character of the South Lake Union neighborhood.

 F. Pursuant to City of Seattle Ordinance 121634, the City is now undertaking a major project to address the long-standing problems associated with Mercer and Valley Streets (the "Mercer/Valley Corridor Project") in order to improve the pedestrian environment, park access, urban design and neighborhood connections and in order to address a variety of multi-modal transportation objectives. Design and construction of the SLU Park improvements and the Mercer/Valley Corridor Project must be well coordinated because of the projects' numerous interdependencies.

 G. The Seattle Design Commission has unanimously endorsed the concept plans for the improvements to SLU Park and for the Mercer/Valley Corridor Project.

 H. Construction of SLU Park will be undertaken in phases as funds become available. To date the City has spent in excess of $24 million acquiring the site, completing planning and design efforts and making wharf and other site improvements. The City intends to continue its efforts to secure the necessary funding to implement improvements to SLU Park as set forth in the plan and estimated project budget set forth in Attachment A hereto (the "SLU Park Plan").

 I. The parties to this AGREEMENT believe that accessible open space is critical to the health and vitality of this region; and that SLU Park, together with the Mercer/Valley Corridor Project, will, when completed, provide an extraordinary gathering space in the heart of the city where the neighborhood and the larger community can enjoy Lake Union, enhanced open space, maritime and Seattle history, boating and other recreational activities, and myriad other opportunities for education and appreciation of our rich maritime culture and heritage.

 The initial phase of construction of the SLU Park Plan will provide the infrastructure that will enable the entire 12-acre park to be activated. The detailed project description and estimated budget for the initial phase is set forth in Attachment B hereto (the "Phase 1 Park Project"). The Phase 1 Park Project will replace the existing bulkhead around the main peninsula, install a boardwalk and stepped terrace, provide access to the water's edge, create a new pedestrian bridge across the waterway, connect the west side of the waterway to the larger park, and at the same time allow the west side of the waterway to develop its own cultural identity as a spot where, in the future, the United Indians of All Tribes may place a longhouse and Native American carving shed. This space is envisioned as one that will be used for local ceremonies such as potlatches and blessing ceremonies. The planned bridge also will connect the park's west side to the Historic Ships Wharf and the nonprofit Center for Wooden Boats. The Wharf will be home to historic ships which are owned and operated by separate nonprofit institutions and which offer a wide variety of programming. A "history trail" incorporating artifacts and interpretive elements is being planned in conjunction with the Phase 1 Park Project. Seattle Parks Foundation and the Museum of History and Industry intend the trail to move visitors through the park while exploring South Lake Union's rich and varied maritime and industrial past.

 In particular, there are extensive cultural uses planned for SLU Park and the Phase 1 Park Project represents the required initial investment. Some of the potential and/or anticipated cultural uses, events and attractions are as listed below:

 Northwest Coast Indian Canoe Center Historic Ships Wharf Maritime Heritage Festivals and Celebrations Maritime Heritage Artifacts and the Armory The Boats Shop including preservation and restoration of wooden boats The Model Boats Pond and Water Spray Feature Wooden Boating on Lake Union Cultural Connections, Trails and Pathways Shanty singing (the lost art of maritime work songs) Concerts Shakespeare in the Park and other open-air theatre

 All SLU Park activities, venues and facilities, including the Armory and the ships on the Historic Ships Wharf, will meet the City/CI Purchase Agreement requirement that the cultural uses be "open to admission of the public".

 J. The Seattle Parks Foundation is committed to undertaking a phased capital campaign for SLU Park and wishes to obtain a major contribution to initiate capital campaign fundraising. CI is committed to advancing the campaign for the development of SLU Park by providing $10 million toward the cost of the SLU Park Plan. The City will work closely with the Seattle Parks Foundation which is committing its efforts to raise $10 million (in addition to the $10 million from CI as contemplated in this AGREEMENT) for the development of SLU Park and completion of the SLU Park Plan. The City will also seek funds from other public sources.

 K. The parties wish to memorialize the terms of their agreement as set forth in this AGREEMENT and to seek Seattle City Council approval of the AGREEMENT.

 ACCORDINGLY, THE PARTIES HEREBY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:

 1. Initial Funds From CI. CI shall provide $5 million to the Seattle Parks Foundation ("Initial CI Funds") and the Seattle Parks Foundation shall contribute such funds to the City of Seattle Parks Department ("Parks Department") to be used to pay for the Phase 1 Park Project. The balance of the funds necessary for completion of the Phase 1 Park Project shall be provided by the City.

 2. Fulfillment of Cultural Use Commitment. Payment of the Initial CI Funds, when made, will fulfill CI's commitment to develop 20,000 square feet of new space for a cultural use or uses within the South Lake Union neighborhood as set forth in Section 6.2 of the 2001 City/CI Purchase Agreement. The City, upon receipt of the Initial CI Funds, shall issue to CI a certificate of completion evidencing satisfaction in full of the Section 6.2 commitment in the form attached as Exhibit T to the City/CI Purchase Agreement. CI and the City concur that SLU Park, once improved, will offer an unparalleled opportunity for the general public to enjoy the beauty of the lake, enhanced recreational opportunities, maritime traditions and Seattle history, and will offer myriad opportunities for cultural awareness and appreciation.

 3. SLU Park Maintenance. The City shall retain sole responsibility for SLU Park maintenance and hereby commits to maintain SLU Park for the benefit of the public at a level that equals or exceeds citywide park maintenance standards.

 4. Amendment of City/CI Purchase Agreement. Section 6.5 of the City/CI Purchase Agreement provides that CI will submit master use permit applications for development of the Mercer/Valley properties by March of 2008. The parties acknowledge that implementing the Mercer/Valley Corridor Project may affect the lot lines of CI's Mercer/Valley properties as well as traffic flows adjacent to those properties. The parties further acknowledge that it is not feasible for CI to develop final plans and submit master use permit applications for the properties until the final boundaries of those properties have been determined. In order to allow sufficient time for planning and implementation of the Mercer/Valley Corridor Project, the parties hereby agree to amend Section 6.5 of the City/CI Purchase Agreement to extend the time period for submission of the foregoing master use permit applications for five (5) additional years. This extension requires Seattle City Council passage of an ordinance authorizing the amendment to the City/CI Purchase Agreement.

 5. Payment of Initial CI Funds. CI shall make the Initial CI Funds payment to the Seattle Parks Foundation when (a) the City is prepared to issue and deliver to CI the certificate of completion referenced in Section 2 above; and (b) the ordinance described in Section 4 above has taken effect.

 6. Additional Funds. In addition to the Initial CI Funds, CI shall pay an additional $5 million to the City (the "Additional Funds"), to be used to help pay for the remaining elements of the SLU Park Plan when the following conditions have been met:

 a. The City has approved a final and complete SLU Park Improvement Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Final Plan") that includes detailed drawings that integrate the southernmost section of SLU Park and the abutting Valley Street from a design and functional perspective and a budget itemizing all sources and uses of funds and an anticipated construction schedule. The City agrees that the Final Plan shall be substantially in the form of Attachment A.

 b. The Seattle Parks Foundation and the City have secured all remaining funds needed to complete the Final Plan, less the Additional Funds. In addition, the City shall be prepared to execute a contract to complete construction of the SLU Park consistent with the Final Plan, contingent only upon confirmation by CI that all conditions related to the availability of the Additional Funds have been satisfied. It is the parties' intent that the Additional Funds be the final dollars contributed to complete construction of the Final Plan.

 c. The City shall be within one (1) year of commencing construction on a reconfiguration of Valley Street as described and depicted in Attachment C hereto (the "Valley Street Improvements"); a funding plan for the Valley Street Improvements is in place; and all applicable environmental review requirements have been fully satisfied with related appeal periods expired. The parties intend that the Valley Street Improvements will better integrate Valley Street with the design for SLU Park as set forth in the Final Plan, and that the Valley Street Improvements be substantially in the form of that shown in Attachment C.

 7. Payment of Additional Funds. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6, the parties agree that in the event the Seattle Parks Foundation and/or the City secures funds sufficient to complete the Final Plan in advance of the conditions set forth in Section 6(c) above having been met and the City in its sole discretion decides to authorize construction to proceed on the remaining elements of the Final Plan, then CI, immediately upon the satisfaction of the Section 6(c) conditions related to the Valley Street Improvements, and upon satisfaction of all other conditions related to the disbursement of the Additional Funds, will pay the Additional Funds as set forth herein.

 8. CI Credit For Open Space Impact Fees Following Payment of Additional Funds. If the Seattle City Council enacts legislation imposing State of Washington Growth Management Act (GMA) authorized open-space impact fees on new development in South Lake Union, then when CI makes the Additional Funds payment it shall be eligible to receive up to $5 million in open-space impact-fee credit which it may use to satisfy any SLU-related open space impact fees for up to ten years following the date of adoption of the impact fee legislation or the date on which CI makes the Additional Funds payment, whichever occurs first. The amount of any such credit would be limited to the amount allowed under the open-space impact-fee formula/fee schedule adopted under such legislation.

 9. CI Credit for Open Space Impact Fees Paid Prior to Additional Funds Payment. In consideration of CI's obligations as set forth herein, the parties further agree that in the event that the Seattle City Council enacts legislation imposing GMA-authorized, open-space impact fees on new development in South Lake Union before CI provides the Additional Funds, then any open-space impact fees that CI pays shall be credited against its Additional Funds pledge. Furthermore, it is the City's intent that the proceeds of any impact fees or development-specific funding mechanisms (as described in Section 10 below) credited against CI's Additional Funds pledge shall be dedicated to implementing the Final Plan or to reimbursing the City for previously incurred costs related to the Final Plan.

 10. CI Credit For Other Payments. In the event that the Seattle City Council does not enact GMA-authorized, open-space impact fees on new development in South Lake Union, but instead the City either administratively or legislatively establishes off-site public open- space requirements (other than site-specific development standards) or development-specific funding mechanisms that result in development in South Lake Union paying for the capital costs associated with off-site public open space or park space, then CI shall be entitled to receive the same crediting and credit transferability as outlined in Sections 8, 9 and 11. If the Seattle City Council enacts GMA-authorized, open- space impact fees and also establishes additional requirements or development-specific funding mechanisms that apply to new development in South Lake Union, the credit and credit transferability provisions outlined in Sections 8, 9 ,10 and 11 will apply to both.

 11. Transferability of CI Credits. Any open-space impact fee credits allocable to CI hereunder shall be freely transferable by CI to any other legal entity, but would only apply to properties within the South Lake Union planning area as described and depicted in Attachment D hereto and inclusive of the area known as the Cascade neighborhood.

 12. Credit Administration. The City's Department of Planning and Development will administer the open-space impact fee credits provided for herein and will report to the Mayor and City Council annually on any credits used or applied and on any remaining balance.

 13. Delineation of Seattle Parks Foundation/City Responsibilities. The City hereby confirms to CI that the City will delineate the respective roles and responsibilities of the Seattle Parks Foundation and the City with respect to Final Plan fundraising, and the design, development, construction and maintenance of the SLU Park.

 14. Termination of AGREEMENT. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if all conditions to CI's obligation to pay the Additional Funds are not satisfied within five years from the effective date of this AGREEMENT (unless otherwise extended by mutual agreement of the parties) the AGREEMENT will terminate (except as to the provisions set forth in Sections 1 through 5 above), CI's pledge of Additional Funds shall be extinguished and any remaining responsibilities or obligations of the parties to this agreement expire and become null and void.

 15. Notices. All notices, requests, and other communications under this AGREEMENT shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person or sent by courier with documented delivery or by registered or certified mail through the U.S. Postal Service with postage prepaid and addressed as follows:

 CI: City Investors Inc. 505 Union Station 505 Fifth Avenue South, Suite 900 Seattle, WA 98104 (206) 342-2000 Attn: Ada Healey, Vice President of Real Estate

 City: Office of the Mayor Seattle City Hall 600 Fourth Avenue, Seventh Floor Seattle, WA 98104 (206) 684-4000

 or such other address as shall be furnished in writing with fifteen (15) days prior notice by either party.

 16. Governing Law Jurisdiction and Venue; Attorneys' Fees. This AGREEMENT shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington. In the event that litigation is commenced by either party, the parties agree that jurisdiction shall lie solely in the courts of the State of Washington, with venue at Seattle, King County, Washington. In any action between the parties at law or in equity pursuant to this AGREEMENT, the prevailing party shall be entitled to collect its reasonable attorneys' fees from the non-prevailing party, including through any level of appeal. The term "prevailing party" shall mean the party who receives substantially the relief sought.

 17. Counterparts. This AGREEMENT may be executed in counterparts and, if so, shall constitute but one and the same original.

 18. Modifications. This AGREEMENT may not be changed, modified or rescinded except in a writing signed by both parties and any attempt at oral modification of this AGREEMENT shall be of no force or effect.

 19. Seattle City Council Approval. This AGREEMENT shall take effect upon the adoption and passage into law of a City of Seattle ordinance authorizing its execution.

 20. Entire Agreement. This AGREEMENT contains all of the covenants, conditions and agreements between the parties in connection with CI's funding for improvements to SLU Park and supercedes all prior correspondence, agreements and understandings, both verbal and written.

 City and CI have caused this AGREEMENT to be executed by representatives duly authorized as of the day and year written above.

 ________________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor City of Seattle

 ________________________________________ Ada M. Healey, Vice President of Real Estate, City Investors Inc.

 Attachment B South Lake Union Park Phase I Estimated Project Costs

 Site Preparation 393,582 Utilities 214,922 Sitework Finish 405,144 North Terrace 468,000 Bulkhead 1,872,000 Boardwalk 439,727 Waterway 3 Pedestrian Bridge 719,026 Washington State Sales Tax 397,091 Contingencies NOTE 1 * Design and Estimating 112,810 * Escalation (3%/year) 112,810 * Construction Phase (15%) 736,424 Construction Costs including WSST and Contingencies 5,871,536 Seattle Parks Foundation Fund Raising Costs 300,000 Permits (incl SEIS & cnsltnt) 90,248 Consultant Fees (Design) 60,000 Construction Mgt, Inspection, Review, Public Process 134,752 Other Costs 585,000 Total Project Costs 6,456,536

 (1) Costs listed above are preliminary estimates and are subject to change.

 Attachment C Reconfiguration of Valley Street

[Reconfiguration of Valley Street](/~ordpics/115313C.gif)

 Key Features

 * Change Valley Street from a 5-lane one-way traffic configuration to a two-way 3-lane configuration consisting of one lane in each direction with accommodation for left-turn pockets.

 * Install a new traffic signal at Terry Street to accommodate pedestrian crossing to the SLU Park

 * Improve and enlarge the sidewalks on the south side of Valley Street.

 * Reconfigure the intersection at Valley and Fairview to create another pedestrian crossing on the west side of Fairview

 * Create both eastbound and westbound bicycle lanes on Valley Street.

 Attachment C: [South Lake Union Boundaries](/~ordpics/115313D.pdf)

```
