

********

**Council Bill Number: 115348**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121915**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Multifamily Property Tax Exemption Program, amending Section 5.73.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) to revise current definitions, amending Section 5.73.040 to revise the criteria for demolition and to clarify the right of first offer on rental projects, and amending SMC Section 5.73.050 to add additional application submittal requirements.

**Status:** Adopted As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 19, 2005
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Compton)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 23, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 22, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 15, 2005
   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services & Health
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** MULTI-FAMILY-RESIDENTIAL-AREAS, PROPERTY-TAXES, TAXES, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, COMMUNITY-DEVELOPMENT

**Fiscal Note:**115348

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Multifamily Property Tax Exemption Program, amending Section 5.73.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) to revise current definitions, amending Section 5.73.040 to revise the criteria for demolition and to clarify the right of first offer on rental projects, and amending SMC Section 5.73.050 to add additional application submittal requirements.

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 121415, passed March 15, 2004, a new Chapter 5.73 of the Seattle Municipal Code was adopted, implementing RCW Chapter 84.14 to provide for exemption from ad valorem property taxation for qualified multi-family housing in designated target areas within the City and designating certain areas as residential targeted areas; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 2 of Ordinance 121415 a committee composed of the designees of the Directors of the Office of Housing, the Department of Planning and Development, Department of Finance, and Council Central Staff reviewed the program and provided City Council a written report ("Executive Report") outlining development activity, types and numbers of units produced and their locations, rent and sales prices, information regarding the number of low and moderate income households benefiting from the program, the total amount of tax exempted annually and cumulatively, the impact of the tax exemption on individual homeowners of the City, and other appropriate factors; and

 WHEREAS, the Executive Report contains recommendations for program amendments, including more complete designation of application requirements; and

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subsections I and L of SMC Section 5.73.020, which was adopted by Ordinance 121415, are hereby amended as follows:

 Section 5.73.020 Definitions

 ***

 I. "Multifamily housing" means a building or buildings,  including associated housing improvements, having four or more dwelling units in each building, designed for permanent residential occupancy resulting from new construction or rehabilitation or conversion of vacant, underutilized, or substandard buildings.

 ***

 L. "Project" means ~~a building or buildings~~the Multifamily housing that is to receive the tax exemption, which Multifamily housing is located or to be located on real property owned by one owner.

 Section 2. Subsections F and G of SMC 5.73.040, which was adopted by Ordinance 121415, is hereby amended as follows:

 Section 5.73.040 Eligibility

 ***

 F. For new construction, where an existing rental housing building that contained four or more ~~occupied~~ dwelling units  that were occupied and ~~was~~ demolished on the site of the new project within ~~12~~18 months prior to the application for exemption under this chapter, the owner shall agree, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Director, to replace any units within such building that were rented to tenants who received a tenant relocation assistance payment under Chapter 22.210, subject to the following requirements:

 1. For the first ten calendar years of operation of the replacement units, the replacement units shall be affordable at or below 50% of median income.

 2. Replacement may be accomplished either as part of the new construction for which application for exemption is made under this chapter, or through the new construction of additional ~~m~~Multifamily housing at another location, or through the substantial rehabilitation of vacant ~~m~~M ultifamily housing, or through the preservation of ~~m~~Multifamily housing that is rented at the time of application to tenants with household annual income at or below 50% of median income, and that the Director determines would otherwise be converted to a use other than rental to tenants with such income.

 3. The replacement housing shall be completed, and a temporary or permanent certificate of occupancy shall be issued, within three years from the date of approval of the application, provided that the Director may extend the time for completion if the Director finds that:

 a. The failure to complete the replacement housing is due to circumstances beyond the owner's control;

 b. The owner has been acting and may reasonably be expected to continue to act in good faith and with due diligence; and

 c. The replacement housing will be completed within a reasonable time.

 4. Where the existing rental housing building was demolished before the effective date of this Chapter 5.73, the requirements of this subsection do not apply.

 G. Multifamily Housing Rental Projects --Affordability and Right of First Offer.

 1. Affordability. For rental ~~m~~Multifamily housing, an owner shall comply with one of the following:

 a. A minimum of 20% of the units shall be rented at Affordable Rents to Income Eligible Occupants whose household income is at or below 60% of Median Income;

 b. A minimum of 25% of the units shall be rented at Affordable Rents to Income Eligible Occupants whose household income is at or below 65% of Median Income; or

 c. A minimum of 30% of the units shall be rented at Affordable Rents to Income Eligible Occupants whose household income is at or below 70% of Median Income.

 2. Right of First Offer.

 a. The City or its assignee shall have and retain, for the life of the exemption granted under this chapter and for one additional year thereafter, a written right of first offer under terms and conditions approved by the Director consistent with this subsection.

 b. Such right of first offer shall be included in the contract with the City required under subsection 5.73.060 of this chapter.

 c. This right of first offer shall require that the owner, prior to placing the rental ~~m~~Multifamily housing on the market for sale, shall inform the City in writing of the owner's intent to sell the rental ~~m~~Multifamily housing. Following receipt of the owner's notice of intent to sell, the City or the City's assignee shall have twenty (20) days to present the owner with a written offer setting forth the price, terms and conditions under which the City or its assignee is prepared to purchase the rental ~~m~~Multifamily housing.

 d. Upon receipt of the offer, the City or its assignee shall have thirty calendar days in which to enter into a real estate purchase and sales agreement with the owner containing the price, terms and conditions described in the offer or other price, terms and conditions agreed to by the parties.

 e. In the event that the owner submits a notice of intent to sell to the City, and either the City or its assignee does not submit an offer within the permitted timeframe, or the City or its assignee submits an offer and no sale to the City or its assignee occurs for reasons not the fault of the owner, the owner shall not, with the exception provided below, have further obligations under this provision for a period of one year from the date the notice of intent to sellis received by the City. Provided, however, that in the event the City or its assignee makes an offer to purchase the rental ~~m~~Multifamily housing but no sale occurs, the owner may not offer the rental ~~m~~M ultifamily housing for sale to a third party at a price and under terms and conditions more favorable to the buyer than the terms offered by the City for a period of one year from the date the offer is received by the owner.

 * * *

 Section 3. Subsections A and D of SMC 5.73.050, which was adopted by Ordinance 121415, are hereby amended as follows:

 Section 5.73.050 Application Procedure -- Fee

 A. The owner of ~~m~~Multifamily housing applying for exemption under this chapter shall submit an application to the Director, on a form adopted by the City Council. The owner shall verify the application by oath or affirmation. The application shall contain such information as the Director may deem necessary or useful, and shall include:

 1. A brief written description of the ~~m~~Multifamily housing, and preliminary schematic site and floor plans of the ~~m~~Multifamily housing units and the structure(s) in which they are proposed to be located;

 2. A statement from the owner acknowledging the potential tax liability when the ~~m~~Multifamily housing ceases to be eligible for exemption under this chapter;

 3. Information describing how the applicant will comply with the affordability requirements in Subsections 5.73.040 G and H of this chapter; ~~and~~

 4. In the case of rehabilitation improvements to an existing vacant building under Section 5.73.020 ~~K 1~~M verification from the Department of Planning and Development of non-compliance with applicable building and housing codes as required under Section 5.73.020 ~~1~~M, and an affidavit from the owner verifying that the residential portion of the building has been vacant for a period of 12 months prior to filing the application~~.~~;5.If available, a housing market study that includes comparable rents in other nearby housing projects; and

6.For rental projects, a preliminary operating budget, utilizing a form provided by the Office of Housing that outlines annual anticipated operating income and expenses for the first ten years of project operation.

 ***

 D. The application shall be submitted any time before, but no later than, the date the first building permit under Seattle Municipal Code, Chapter 22, is issued.

 Section 4. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Exhibit A: Application: Property Tax Exemption for Multifamily Housing

 August 1, 2005 version #6 ta

 Exhibit A: APPLICATION Property Tax Exemption for Multifamily Housing (Pursuant to Chapter 5.73 of the Seattle Municipal Code)

 Applicant's Information

 Owner: ___________________________________________________________ Address: ___________________________________________________________ Phone: ______________________ FAX: _____________________ e-mail: ______________________

 Owner's Representative: ____________________________________________________ (if applicable) Address: ___________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________ Phone: ______________________ FAX: ____________________ e-mail: ______________________

 Note: This application is intended to be signed by the building owner of record or designee. The application may be rejected or additional documentation required if the signer is other than the building owner of record.

 Property Information

 Interest in property: [ ] Fee Simple [ ] Contract purchase [ ] Other (describe) _______________

 County Assessor's parcel account number(s): _________________________________

 Street Address: _____________________________________________________________

 Legal Description (Attach separate sheet if needed): ________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________

 Residential Target Area (See SMC 5.73.030(D: ________________________________

 Project Information

 Project Name or Designation: ________________________________________________

 Brief written description of the project (preliminary conceptual design, description of unit finishes, site plan and floor plans of the units and structure must be submitted with this application): _____________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________

 Type of Project (check all that apply): [ ] Residential Rental [ ] Residential For-Sale [ ] Mixed Use

 Number of Dwelling Units Proposed: Rental ____ For Sale ____ Total ________

 Floor area: Building total (sq. ft.)________ For permanent residential occupancy (sq. ft.)*________

 *Include residential common areas, circulation and mechanical space, and residential parking in calculation of residential square footage. Exclude residential units offered for rent for periods of less than one month. "Residential parking" includes: (1) parking required by the Seattle Land Use Code as accessory to residential use; (2) resident parking included in lease or sale price of residential units; (3) parking restricted by agreement to use by residential owners or tenants.

 Unit Information

 Unit Type # of units Approx. Projected rent # of units Projected (# BRs) avg. sf. or sales price (affordable) rent or (market rate) sales price (affordable units) Total

 Non-residential Space (if applicable) Description Floor Area (sq. ft.) __________________________________________________________ ______________ __________________________________________________________ ______________

 Affordability. To be granted the tax exemption, the owner must agree to meet the following requirements: (please check which one)

 [ ] At least 30% of the units affordable at or below 70% of median income. [ ] At least 25% of the units affordable at or below 65% of median income. [ ] At least 20% of the units affordable at or below 60% of median income.

 Projected total cost of new construction/rehabilitation: $____________________ (Number should agree with Form 1. Exclude cost of land.)

 If mixed use, projected cost of residential improvements: $ __________________

 Estimated construction start date: _________ Expected completion date: _______

 List permits and approvals obtained as of the date of tax exemption application: _______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________

 CHECK ALL THAT APPLY:

 [ ] New Construction. Will any occupied housing units be demolished? [ ] YES [ ] NO

 Were any occupied housing units demolished in the past 18 months on this site? [ ] YES [ ] NO

 Date of demolition (if known): ________________________

 # of existing units to be demolished ______ # of units demolished in past 18 months ______

 [ ] Rehabilitation of Vacant Units. # of vacant housing units ______

 Date units last occupied: ___________ Building [ ] is [ ] is not in compliance with applicable building and housing codes (DPD verification required-please attach).

 [ ] Rehabilitation of Occupied Units. Will four or more additional units be created as part of a rehabilitation project? [ ] YES [ ] NO

 If yes, will any residents be displaced as part of this project? [ ] YES [ ] NO

 Attachments to Application

 Please attach and check the following:

 [ ] Preliminary conceptual design, including site plan and floor plans of the multifamily units and the overall structure.

 [ ] Preliminary development budget (Form 1 or equivalent)

 [ ] Rentals only. Preliminary operating budget, that outlines annual anticipated operating income and expenses for the first ten years of project operation. (Form 2 or equivalent)

 [ ] A market study, if available, that includes comparable rents in other nearby housing projects.

 [ ] Representative photographs of site and exterior of any existing structures (color photocopy is acceptable)

 [ ] For rehabilitation of an existing vacant structure, verification from DPD of non-compliance with applicable building and housing codes.

 [ ] Application fee of [ ] $3,800 for residential use building, or [ ] $4,900 for mixed residential and non-residential use building. Checks should be made payable to the City of Seattle.

 Statement of Potential Tax Liability

 If the exemption is canceled for non-compliance an additional tax will be imposed that includes: (a) the difference between the tax paid and the tax that would have been owed if it had included the value of the nonqualifying improvements dated back to the date that the improvements became nonqualifying; (b) a penalty of 20% of the difference; (c) interest at the statutory rate on the tax and penalties calculated from the date the tax would have been due without penalty if the improvements had been assessed without regard to the exemptions provided by Chapter 84.14 RCW and Chapter 5.73 SMC.

 Owner's initial: _______

 Certification

 As owner(s) of the land described in this application, I hereby indicate by (my/our) signature(s) below that (I/we) are aware of the additional tax liability to which the property will be subject if the exemption authorized by Chapter 84.14 RCW and Chapter 5.73 SMC is canceled. I/We declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of Washington that the above information and any attachments are accurate and correct to the best of (my/our) knowledge.

 I certify that the affordable units will have substantially the same level of interior fixtures and quality of finish as market rate units in the same development as required in SMC 5.73.040 subsection K.

 Owner's initial: _________

 For rehabilitation of a vacant building:

 I certify that the existing dwelling units have been vacant for a period of twelve months prior to the filing of this application. [ ] YES [ ] NO [ ] not applicable ____________________________________ _______________________ Owner's Signature Date ____________________________________ ________________________ Print Name Title

 ____________________________________ _______________________ Owner's Signature Date ____________________________________ ________________________ Print Name Title

 Supplemental Information

 The following information is requested for overall program evaluation purposes, and will not be considered in the decision to approve or reject your application.

 1. Please list, by street address, other multifamily housing projects you have developed in the past ten years. Indicate number of units in each project. (Attach separate sheet if needed.)

 2. Please list any public financial assistance or incentive programs (grants, loans, tax credits, bonus FAR, TDR, etc.) you intend to use to help finance the proposed project.

 3. Did the ability to obtain a property tax exemption for your project make a difference in your decision to develop the project? If so, in what way?

 ta

```
