

********

**Council Bill Number: 115395**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121946**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the transfer of City real property; authorizing the transfer of 1321 26th Avenue South to Habitat for Humanity of Seattle/South King County or its designee; authorizing the Director of the Office of Housing to execute, deliver, and administer the contract for transfer of land, deed and related documents; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 26, 2005
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 3, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 3, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 19, 2005
   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services & Health
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, CENTRAL-AREA, ATLANTIC

**Fiscal Note:**115395

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the transfer of City real property; authorizing the transfer of 1321 26th Avenue South to Habitat for Humanity of Seattle/South King County or its designee; authorizing the Director of the Office of Housing to execute, deliver, and administer the contract for transfer of land, deed and related documents; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 116516, amended by Ordinance 119313, the City Council authorized the City to enter into a Land Transfer Agreement to purchase certain improved and unimproved real property in the I-90 corridor from the State of Washington, which Land Transfer Agreement was executed on May 5, 1993 and subsequently amended, and further authorized issuance to the State of promissory notes of the City for the deferred portion of the purchase price of each improved parcel; and

 WHEREAS, by Resolution 27901, City Council approved the I-90 Area Development Policies as the basic City policy governing the development of surplus publicly-owned land in the I-90 corridor, and such policies were amended on December 11, 1995, by Resolution 29258; and

 WHEREAS, these policies promote use of I-90 properties for homeownership; and

 WHEREAS, Habitat for Humanity of Seattle/South King County ("Habitat") desires to acquire 1321 26th Ave. South to facilitate construction of new homes for sale to low-income homebuyers, and

 WHEREAS, the Director of the Office of Housing has recommended that the property located at 1321 26th Avenue South be transferred to Habitat;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of the Office of Housing ("Director") is authorized to enter into and perform an agreement ("Agreement") with Habitat for Humanity of Seattle/South King County ("Habitat") or to a designee of Habitat approved by the Director (Habitat and any approved designee, and any assignee of the Agreement approved by the Director, are referred to as "Transferee"), for the transfer of the property legally described as:

 Parcel tax number: 1285300105 - 1321 26th Avenue South

 Legal description: Lots 17 and 18 in Block 2 of Cable Line Addition to the City of Seattle, as per plat recorded in Volume 3, of Plats, page 13, records of King County; together with that portion of the South 15 feet of South Wadsworth Place adjoining said premises, vacated by Ordinance No. 33195; Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (the "Property") on the terms and subject to the conditions authorized in this ordinance. The Agreement shall reflect the provisions included in the Term Sheet attached to this ordinance as Attachment A, with such revisions and additions, not inconsistent with the express terms of this ordinance or with applicable law, as the Director may determine are reasonably necessary to carry out the intent of this ordinance. Upon transfer of the Property Transferee shall sign and deliver to the City a promissory note ("Note") in the amount of $270,000 secured by a deed of trust on the Property, in accordance with the Agreement. The terms of the Note shall be substantially as set forth in Attachment A except as they may be modified by written agreement based on a determination by the Director that, after review of the Transferee's development plans and the reasonable costs of developing the housing and maintaining long- term affordability, the terms in Attachment A are or may be more favorable than reasonably required in order for Transferee to provide and maintain long-term affordable housing at the income levels established under commitments to the City. In order to carry out the Agreement for and on behalf of the City, the Director is authorized to execute a deed for the Property, the form of which is substantially shown on Attachment B, and upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent under the Agreement, except for any that may be waived in writing by the Director, the Director is authorized to cause the deed to be recorded and delivered to the Transferee. The Director is authorized to execute, deliver, accept, record, modify, enforce and administer such other documents, which may include amendments and extensions to the Agreement, and take such other actions, as she shall deem necessary or advisable to implement the purpose of this ordinance.

 Section 2. The Agreement shall require Transferee to use diligent efforts to pursue design work, financing applications, environmental reports, permit applications and all other steps necessary to construct and permanently finance improvements on the Property as described in Section 3 of this ordinance. All such efforts of Transferee shall be at its own expense and risk. The Agreement may provide interim deadlines as deemed appropriate by the Director, which may be extended in the discretion of the Director. The Agreement shall terminate if the conditions to transfer of the Property by the City are not satisfied within two (2) years of the effective date of this ordinance, except that extensions may be granted by the Director if in her judgment an extension furthers the City's objectives.

 Section 3. The improvements to be developed on the Property are to include the maximum number of houses that regulations allow to be constructed on the Property, for initial sale to households with income at or below 80% of median family income, as defined in the Agreement, with sale prices affordable to such households as determined in the Agreement. Future sale prices shall be restricted to maintain affordability to low-income households, as defined in the Agreement.

 Section 4. The disposition procedures in the I-90 Area Development Policies, as adopted in Resolution 27901 and amended in Resolution 29258, and provisions of such Policies with respect to intended or preferred uses or development, shall be waived with respect to the transfer of the Property to Transferee.

 Section 5. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment A: Term Sheet

 Attachment B: Form of Quitclaim Deed

 Angela Brooks / AB

 1321 26th South

 September 1, 2005

 version 3

 4

 ATTACHMENT A: TERM SHEET

 TRANSFER OF I-90 SURPLUS PROPERTY FROM THE CITY OF SEATTLE (hereafter "City")

 TO HABITAT FOR HUMANITY of SEATTLE/SOUTH KING COUNTY OR ITS DESIGNEE (anticipated to be Homestead Community Land Trust) (hereafter "Transferee")

 This term sheet describes the basic terms of the proposed transfer of I-90 property between Transferee (anticipated to be Homestead Community Land Trust) and City. Any binding commitment by the City to transfer the property will be made only after City Council approval by ordinance and upon signing of a definitive agreement (the "Agreement"). The Agreement is intended to include the following terms:

 1. Transfer. City shall transfer to Transferee, anticipated to be Homestead Community Land Trust (HCLT), certain real property located in the City of Seattle, commonly known as 1321 26th Avenue South ("Property").

 2. Price; Security. The transfer shall be for a stated price of $270,000. However, no payment will be due as long as the land portion of the Property is held by a nonprofit dedicated to maintaining homeownership for low-income buyers, and such nonprofit continues leasing land to low-income buyers of improvements on terms designed to maintain affordability as set forth in the Agreement. Transferee shall sign a non-recourse promissory note, with no fixed due date in the amount of $270,000 secured by a first deed of trust on the Property, with 3% simple interest accruing annually. The City shall have the right to call the balance of principal and interest due under circumstances outlined in the Agreement.

 3. Development Plan:

 a) The Agreement shall require Habitat for Humanity of Seattle/South King County (Habitat) to use diligent efforts to pursue design work, financing applications, environmental reports, permit applications and all other steps necessary to construct and permanently finance improvements on the Property as described in Section 3 of the ordinance authorizing the Agreement. All such efforts of Habitat shall be at its own expense and risk. Habitat shall secure required permits to demolish the existing house on the property and proceed with demolition as rapidly as possible after execution of the Agreement.

 b) Habitat intends to construct the maximum number of houses permitted by land use code regulations. Habitat shall seek required approval to subdivide the property or shall pursue a lot boundary adjustment, in either case to permit construction of 2 houses.

 c) Upon completion of construction, Habitat shall sell the house(s) to qualified low-income buyer(s) with income at time of closing (purchase) at or below 80% of median family income.

 d) Habitat intends to assign its rights under the Agreement to HCLT, or another nonprofit entity subject to City approval, that will continue ownership of the land. That entity shall lease the land to the homebuyer(s) on terms approved by the City. The lease shall contain resale restrictions designed to allow improvements to be sold to households with income at or below 80% of median family income.

 4. Conditions precedent to construction and closing:

 a) Habitat and HCLT shall provide detailed description of roles and responsibilities of entities that will be involved in construction, identifying and qualifying homebuyers, and land ownership. Habitat and HCLT will also provide development timeline, construction and take-out financing structure, development budgets, draft documents to be used relating to land lease and sale of improvements, and any other materials or documents requested by the City that describe how the house(s) will remain affordable to initial and subsequent low- income homebuyers. Requested descriptions, information, and documents shall be provided at least 30 days prior to demolition or start of any aspect of construction. All such descriptions, documents and entities must be acceptable to the City in its discretion. City approval is required prior to demolition or start of any aspect of construction.

 b) Prior to City approval identified in paragraph "a" above, Habitat may begin, at its sole expense, all regulatory processes required to determine the maximum number of houses that can be constructed on the property.

 c) Following City approval, Habitat shall demolish the existing structures and prepare the property for development at Habitat's sole expense.

 d) Habitat shall complete construction of the maximum number of houses permitted at its sole expense. Habitat shall be the owner of improvements constructed on the Property.

 e) Habitat shall identify qualified home buyers for the house(s) constructed .

 f) Habitat shall complete any agreements needed with the nonprofit entity that will assume ownership of the Property, anticipated to be HCLT. Habitat shall propose assignment to a nonprofit, anticipated to be HCLT, for City approval prior to closing of the transfer.

 g) Habitat and HCLT shall provide all final land lease and loan documents relating to sale to homebuyers to City for approval prior to closing of the transfer to Transferee.

 5. Development Schedule.

 * One year following the effective date of the ordinance, Habitat shall have secured all required approvals to begin construction.

 * Two years following the effective date of the ordinance, Habitat and HCLT shall have completed construction and closing of the transfer of the Property to Transferee shall have occurred.

 Habitat and HCLT may request extensions of either of the above dates by submitting a request to the City's Director of the Office of Housing.

 6. Transfer of Title / Closing/Possession. Closing shall take place on such date as the Transferee may specify in a written notice to the City, delivered to the City at least 10 days in advance of the closing date specified in the written notice, but such notice may be given only after satisfaction of all conditions to closing. Title shall be conveyed by Quit Claim Deed. Possession of the Property shall transfer to Habitat upon execution of the Agreement. After transfer of possession Habitat shall have all risk of loss and shall indemnify and hold harmless the City from any liability in connection with the possession, development or maintenance of the Property. During the period of time between transfer of possession and closing, Habitat shall maintain insurance against any such liability, in amounts and with coverages satisfactory to the City, with the City named as additional insured. Upon transfer of possession Habitat shall be responsible for all taxes and other governmental charges, utilities, repairs and maintenance of the Property. After closing, HCLT (if designated Transferee) will assure that the property is continuously insured against liability, in amounts and with coverages satisfactory to the City, with the City named as additional insured.

 7. Other conditions.

 * Agreement will contain other conditions determined by the City's Director of the Office of Housing to be necessary to provide desired outcomes.

 * The transfer to Transferee shall be "AS IS," without any warranty as to any matters related to the condition of the premises, including without limitation the presence of any hazardous materials or underground tanks, or any other environmental matters.

 8. Expenses. Transferee shall pay all costs of closing the transfer, including without limitation escrow fees and recording charges, and shall pay for any title insurance policy desired by Transferee. t

 Attachment B: Form of Quitclaim Deed

 After recording, return to:

 Seattle Office of Housing

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5700

 Seattle, WA 981124-4725

 Attn: Rick Hooper

 QUITCLAIM DEED SUBJECT TO CONDITION SUBSEQUENT / POWER OF TERMINATION, with GRANTEE's COVENANTS, RELEASES AND INDEMNITY

 Reference number of related documents: N/A

 Grantor: The City of Seattle

 Grantee: [HABITAT FOR HUMANITY OF SEATTLE/SOUTH KING COUNTY or Designee]

 Grant. The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Grantor"), for consideration described in that certain Transfer Agreement described below, hereby conveys and quit claims to _________________________________________________ ("Grantee"), that certain real property located in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, and legally described as follows ("Property"):

 Lots 17 and 18 in Block 2 of Cable Line Addition to the City of Seattle, as per plat recorded in Volume 3, of Plats, page 13, records of King County; together with that portion of the South 15 feet of South Wadsworth Place adjoining said premises, vacated by Ordinance No. 33195; Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Grantee's Covenants, Releases and Indemnity ("Covenant")

 The Property is conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL-FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE GRANTEE'S INTENDED USES AND PURPOSES. Grantee acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or other conditions (including without limitation, adverse environmental soils and ground-water conditions), either latent or patent, may exist on the Property and assumes Grantor's responsibility for all environmental conditions of the Property, known or unknown, including but not limited to responsibility, if any, for investigation, removal or remediation actions relating to the presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance or other environmental contamination relating to the Property. Grantee also releases, covenants not to sue, and shall indemnify, defend, and hold Grantor and its past, present and future officials, employees, and agents, harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, penalties, fees, damages, losses, expenses (including but not limited to fees and costs of regulatory agencies, attorneys, contractors and consultants), and liabilities arising out of, or in any way connected with, the condition of the Property including but not limited to any alleged or actual past, present or future presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property, or any portion thereof or improvement thereon, from any cause whatsoever; it being intended that Grantee shall so indemnify Grantor and such personnel without regard to any fault or responsibility of Grantor or Grantee. Grantee is aware of the rights it might otherwise have to seek recovery from Grantor for costs of remediation and cleanup of Hazardous Substances under applicable law, including without limitation the Washington Model Toxics Control Act ("MTCA") and the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), and Grantee hereby knowingly waives all such rights, now existing or hereafter arising, and voluntarily relinquishes those rights and forever releases the Grantor from any such obligation. The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property and the acknowledgements, releases, and covenants herein touch and concern the Property, are intended to run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Grantor and its successors and assigns.

 For purposes of this Covenant, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs") and compounds containing them; lead, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage tanks; and any substance or material that is now is or hereafter becomes regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or other law relating to environmental protection, contamination or cleanup.

 Grantee's release and covenant not to sue shall include both claims by Grantee as original plaintiff against Grantor and any cross- claims, third-party claims or other claims against Grantor by Grantee based upon claims made against Grantee by any third parties. The obligation to indemnify and defend shall include, but not be limited to, any liability of Grantor to any and all federal, state or local regulatory agencies or other persons or entities for remedial action costs and natural resources damages claims. This Covenant means that Grantee accepts the Property "as-is, where-is and with-all- faults," and that Grantee assumes all responsibility of Grantor to investigate, remove and remediate any environmental conditions on the Property and has no recourse against Grantor or any of its officers, employees or agents for any claim or liability with respect to the Property. This Covenant shall apply regardless of whether or not Grantee is culpable, negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation. Nothing herein shall release, discharge or affect any rights or causes of action that Grantor or Grantee may have against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly stated herein, and each of the parties reserves all such rights including, but not limited to, claims for contribution or cost recovery relating to any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property.

 Nondiscrimination. Grantee further covenants that there shall be no discrimination upon the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, in the sale, lease or rental, or in the use or occupancy, of the Property or any improvements erected or to be erected thereon. Both the Grantor and the United States of America shall be entitled to enforce this paragraph, which shall run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns.

 The terms of this Covenant are in addition to, and not in substitution for, those terms of the Transfer Agreement dated ______________, 2005 between Grantor and Grantee (the "Contract") that, by the terms of such Contract, survive the delivery of this deed.

 Condition Subsequent / Power of Termination. This conveyance is subject to the following condition and power of termination which shall be binding on the Grantee and its successors and assigns, and to which Grantee agrees on behalf of Grantee and its successors and assigns:

 1. Condition Subsequent. This Deed and all rights of Grantee hereunder are subject to a condition subsequent upon the occurrence of which Grantor or its governmental successors or assigns shall have the absolute right, subject only to the express limitations set forth herein, to terminate, by notice to Grantee or by reentering and taking possession of the Property, the estate conveyed under this deed and all rights of all persons claiming by or through Grantee, whereupon fee simple title to the Property shall revest entirely in Grantor or its governmental successors or assigns. The condition subsequent shall have occurred unless the following shall have occurred on or before ___________: Grantee shall have obtained from the Seattle Department of Planning and Development ("DPD") the Certificate of Occupancy for the Property consistent with the Schematic Design and Summary Description.

 2. Certificate of Compliance. Upon recording of a Certificate of Compliance duly signed by the Director of the Office of Housing of the Grantor, stating that the Grantee has timely satisfied the above requirement such that the condition subsequent cannot occur, or that if such requirements have not been timely satisfied they have been waived by the City, the condition subsequent in this deed shall be of no further force or effect.

 3. Miscellaneous. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Contract. Time is of the essence of all of the provisions hereof.

 Executed this ____day of ___________, 2005, pursuant to Ordinance _________ of The City of Seattle.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: Adrienne E. Quinn, Director

 Office of Housing

 Grantee:

 By:

 Print Name:

 Print Title:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________, 200 , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Adrienne E. Quinn, to me known to be the Director of the Office of Housing of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal corporation on behalf of which the within and foregoing instrument was executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this instrument above written.

 (Signature) (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at .

 My commission expires ____________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________, 200 , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of _____________, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ______________________, to me known to be the __________________________ of ______________________, or it's designee, a Washington corporation on behalf of which the within and foregoing instrument was executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this instrument above written.

 ________

 (Signature) (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of _____________, residing at

 My commission expires

 4

 Attachment B: Form of Quitclaim Deed

```
