

********

**Council Bill Number: 115460**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122009**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Palm Substation and abutting property located on California Avenue SW, Seattle; declaring the Palm Substation to be surplus to the City's needs; authorizing its sale and the acceptance of an easement on the abutting property; authorizing the Superintendent of City Light Department to execute a purchase and sale agreement and other documents in connection therewith; and authorizing the deposit of sales proceeds into the City Light Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 12, 2005
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Licata)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 15, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 15, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 5, 2005
   
**Committee:** Energy & Environmental Policy
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, CITY-LIGHT, WEST-SEATTLE

**Fiscal Note:**115460

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Palm Substation and abutting property located on California Avenue SW, Seattle; declaring the Palm Substation to be surplus to the City's needs; authorizing its sale and the acceptance of an easement on the abutting property; authorizing the Superintendent of City Light Department to execute a purchase and sale agreement and other documents in connection therewith; and authorizing the deposit of sales proceeds into the City Light Fund.

 WHEREAS, certain real property commonly known as the Palm Substation (as hereinafter defined, the "Palm Property") is surplus to the needs of City Light Department and has been de-energized; and

 WHEREAS, the fair market value of the Palm Property, as determined by an independent appraiser assuming that no site conditions need to be corrected, is Two Hundred Seventy Thousand Dollars and 00/100 ($270,000); and

 WHEREAS, no other City departments or other governmental entities in the area desire to purchase the Palm Property; and

 WHEREAS, the owner of the abutting property desires to purchase the Palm Property at the appraised price and, as additional consideration, to grant an easement that preserves a portion of the abutting property as open space for twenty years (as hereinafter defined, the "Easement"); and

 WHEREAS, the neighborhood and the City of Seattle (the "City") desire preservation of such open space; and

 WHEREAS, it has been recommended by the City Light Department and Fleets and Facilities Department, and the Real Estate Oversight Committee has concurred, that it is in the best interest of the City to sell the Palm Property to the abutting property owner and to accept the Easement; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Pursuant to the provisions of RCW 35.94.040 and after a public hearing, the following described real property in King County, Washington:

 The East 50 feet of Lots 8, 9, 10 and the North 10 feet of the East 50 feet of lot 11, Block 13, First Plat of West Seattle by the West Seattle Land and Improvement Company, as recorded in Volume 3 of Plats, Page 2, King County, Washington,

 commonly known as Palm Substation, located at 1720 California Avenue SW, Seattle, WA (the "Palm Property"), is hereby found and declared to be no longer required for providing public utility service and to be surplus to the City's needs.

 Section 2. As requested by the Superintendent of the City Light Department ("Superintendent") and recommended by the Mayor, the Superintendent, or his designee, is authorized to sell the Palm Property to the abutting property owner, in consideration of the payment of $ 270,000, less a $10,000 credit for cleanup, and the grant of an open space easement, as described in Section 3, and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement attached as Exhibit A. The Superintendent, or his designee, is further authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of The City, (a) a Quit Claim Deed, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, pursuant to which the Palm Property will be conveyed to the purchaser and (b) such other documents as the Superintendent deems necessary or desirable to effectuate the conveyance authorized herein. Proceeds from the sale authorized herein shall be deposited into the City Light Fund.

 Section 3. As requested by the Superintendent and recommended by the Mayor, the Superintendent, or his designee, is authorized on behalf of the City to accept the Easement, with respect to the property located at 1716 California Avenue SW and legally described in the Easement that abuts the Palm Property. Acceptance shall be evidenced by the Superintendent's execution of a statement of acceptance on the Easement. The Superintendent is additionally authorized to execute such other documents as may be necessary to effectuate the conveyance of the Easement to the City.

 Section 4. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Jan Drago, President of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _____________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit A: Purchase and Sale Agreement

 Appendix 1: Open Space Easement

 Exhibit B: Quit Claim Deed

 Charlie Hampton/ch/ns

 SCL Palm Substation Sale ORD

 November 22, 2005

 version # 6

 1

 EXHIBIT A

 AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE

 (Palm Substation)

 THIS AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE

 (Palm Substation) (the "Agreement") is entered into this ____ day of _________, 2005 (the "Agreement Date") by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting through its City Light Department (the "City") and _____________________________________ ("Buyer"). The City and Buyer are referred to collectively as the "Parties."

 WHEREAS, the City desires to sell the Palm Substation, located at 1720 California Avenue SW, Seattle, and legally defined in section 1 the "Property";

 WHEREAS, the neighborhood desires to preserve open space;

 WHEREAS, Buyer desires to purchase the Property at its appraised value and to preserve certain adjoining property as open space for twenty years;

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the respective agreements set forth below, and for other valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the City and the Buyer agree as follows:

 1. Property. The City hereby agrees to sell and convey, and Buyer agrees to purchase, subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, the real property at 1720 California Avenue Southwest located in the County of King, State of Washington, including any and all mineral, water, timber and other surface and subsurface rights, permits, hereditaments, easements, incidents that may exist, and any appurtenances belonging thereto, described as follows:

 The East 50 feet of Lots 8, 9, 10 and the North 10 feet of the East 50 feet of lot 11, Block 13, First Plat of West Seattle by the West Seattle Land and Improvement Company, as recorded in Volume 3 of Plats, Page 2, King County, Washington,

 (hereinafter, the "Property").

 2. Purchase Price. As partial consideration for purchase of the Property, Buyer shall pay Two Hundred Seventy Thousand Dollars ($270,000.00), the fair market value of the Property as determined by appraisal, less a credit of Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00) for site cleanup and removal of a concrete slab, for a net price of Two Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($260,000.00) (the "Net Purchase Price"), payable in cash at closing.

 3. Earnest Money. Within one day of execution of this Agreement, Buyer shall deliver a CASHIER'S CHECK to the City in the amount of Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00) (the "Earnest Money"), as partial payment of the Net Purchase Price for the Property.

 4. Conveyance by Quit Claim Deed. At closing, fee title to the Property shall be conveyed to the Buyer by quitclaim deed.

 5. Condition Precedent. Buyer's obligation to purchase the Property as provided herein shall be subject to a satisfactory environmental assessment of the Property by Buyer. If on or before the time prescribed in section 6, Buyer notifies the City in writing that the environmental assessment of the Property is unsatisfactory, in Buyer's sole discretion, then Buyer may, at its sole election, terminate this Agreement by so stating in the aforesaid notice. In such event, the City shall return the Earnest Money in accordance with section 16.C.

 6. Period to Satisfy Condition Precedent. Buyer shall have until and through midnight of 12/16/2005, in which to notify the City that the condition precedent to Buyer's purchase of the Property, as described in Section 5, has NOT been fulfilled. Such notice shall be by certified mail, postage prepaid and shall be deemed to have been given upon the date shown postmarked on the envelope in which such notice is sent.

 7. Waiver of Conditions Precedent. If Buyer has not notified City in accordance with section 6, Buyer will be deemed to have waived the conditions precedent to Buyer's obligation to purchase the Property in accordance with this Agreement.

 8. Closing Date. Closing shall be held at the City on or before January 31,2006 (the "Closing Date") unless extended by mutual consent.

 9. Taxes. The Parties agree that all taxes, assessments and encumbrances that will be a lien against the Property at closing, including all deferred taxes, whether or not a lien, and any other charges that could be imposed on the Property in the future by recapture or otherwise as a result of any classification of the Property for assessment purposes existing prior to closing, open space tax, interest, and penalties, whether or not those charges would constitute a lien against the Property at closing, shall be satisfied of record by the City at or before closing.

 10. General Indemnification. Except to the extent provided in sections 11 and 14, the City shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Buyer from and against any and all loss, claims, demands, causes of action, liability, liens and encumbrances, costs and expenses, including all out-of-pocket litigation costs and the reasonable fees and expense of counsel, (a) no matter how arising, related to the Property and occurring or arising before the closing, or in any way related to or arising from any act or omission of the City with respect to the Property on or before closing; and (b) arising out of the inaccuracy in or breach of any representation or warranty of the City. Buyer shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City from and against any and all loss, claims, demands, causes of action, liability, liens and encumbrances, costs and expenses, including all out-of-pocket litigation costs and the reasonable fees and expense of counsel, (c) no matter how arising, related to the Property and occurring or arising after the closing, or in any way related to or arising from any act or omission of the City with respect to the Property on or before closing; and (d) arising out of any breach or default by Buyer under this Agreement.

 Each Party shall notify the other Party in writing of the nature of any claim for indemnification. Each Party may elect to assume defense of the matter giving rise to the claim for indemnification, in which event the defense shall be conducted by counsel chosen by that Party and reasonably satisfactory to the other Party.

 11. Environmental Release and Indemnification. Buyer acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or other conditions (including without limitation, adverse environmental soils and ground-water conditions), either latent or patent, may exist on the Property, and Buyer assumes the City's responsibility for all environmental conditions of the Property, known or unknown and arising before or after closing, including but not limited to responsibility, if any, for investigation, removal or remediation actions relating to the presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance or other environmental contamination relating to the Property. Buyer also releases and shall indemnify, defend, and hold the City and its past, present and future officials, employees, and agents, harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, penalties, fees, damages, losses, expenses (including but not limited to regulatory agencies, attorneys, contractors and consultants' fees and costs), and liabilities arising out of, or in any way connected with, the condition of the Property, including but not limited to any alleged or actual past, present or future presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property, or any portion thereof or improvement thereon, from any cause whatsoever; it being intended that Buyer shall so indemnify Seller and such personnel without regard to any fault or responsibility of Seller or Buyer.

 For purposes of this section 11, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs") and compounds containing them; asbestos or asbestos- containing materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage tanks; or any substance or material that is now or hereafter becomes regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or other law relating to environmental protection, contamination or cleanup.

 Buyer's release and indemnification shall include both claims by Buyer against the City and cross-claims against the City by Buyer based upon claims made against Buyer by any and all third parties. The obligation to indemnify and defend shall include, but not be limited to, any liability of the City to any and all federal, state or local regulatory agencies or other persons or entities for remedial action costs and natural resources damages claims. The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property and the acknowledgement, release and indemnification touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of the Property, constitute an assessment against the Property and are intended to run with the land and bind Buyer and Buyer's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of the City and its successors and assigns. This release and indemnification means that Buyer accepts the Property "as-is, where-is and with-all- faults," and that Buyer assumes all responsibility of the City to investigate, remove and remediate any environmental conditions on the Property and has no recourse against the City or any of its officers, employees or agents for any claim or liability with respect to the Property.

 The City shall have the right to defend itself and seek from Buyer recovery of any damages, liabilities, settlement awards and defense costs and expenses incurred by Seller if Buyer does not accept unconditionally the City's tender to Buyer of the duty to investigation, remove and/or remediate environmental conditions on the Property and/or defend and indemnify the City against any such claim, suit, demand, penalty, fee, damages, losses, cost or expense. Buyer's obligations under this section 11 shall apply regardless of whether or not Buyer is culpable, negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation. is the provisions of this section 11 are not intended, nor shall they, release, discharge or affect any rights or causes of action that the City or Buyer may have against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly stated herein, and each of the Parties reserves all such rights including.

 12. Preservation of Property; Risk of Loss. The City agrees that the Property shall remain as it is on the Agreement Date until closing. The City shall deliver possession of the Property to Buyer at closing.

 13. Costs and Fees. Buyer shall pay any and all costs associated with the closing of this transaction and any costs for recording the quitclaim deed.

 14. Right of Entry. Prior to the Closing Date, Buyer may enter upon the Property at reasonable times for surveying, inspection and other reasonable purposes related to this transaction. Buyer agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless from and against any loss, cost, lien or other liability resulting from Buyer's negligent or malicious act or omission in connection with its entry onto the Property pursuant to this section 14. Buyer shall leave the site in the same or as nearly as possible the same condition as it was prior to the time of entry.

 15. Contingencies to Closing.

 A. Buyer's obligation to close as provided herein shall be subject to satisfaction of the following contingencies:

 1. Legal documents shall be reasonably acceptable to Buyer, and

 2. The City shall be in full compliance with this Agreement.

 B. The City's obligation to close as provided herein shall be subject to satisfaction of the following contingencies:

 1. Legal documents shall be in a form reasonably acceptable to the City, 2. Buyer shall be in full compliance with this Agreement, and

 3. An ordinance of the City authorizing conveyance of the Property shall be in effect.

 16. Failure to Close.

 A. In the event Buyer fails, without legal excuse, to complete the purchase of the Property by the Closing Date, the Agreement shall terminate and the Earnest Money shall be forfeited to the City as the sole and exclusive remedy available to the City for such failure. In establishing this liquidated damages amount, Buyer and the City agree that the amount of the Earnest Money is a reasonable estimate, as of the time this Agreement is being executed, of the risks and damages the City could suffer as a result of Buyer's failure to close on the Property, including, without limitation, the risk of freezing the purchase price or losing the opportunity to sell for a higher price, the risk that the market for the Property could drop substantially, the lost time value of the City's equity resulting from any delay in receiving payment of their equity, lost opportunities for other investments, and costs that the City could incur as a result of Buyer's default. Buyer and the City acknowledge that this provision has been specifically negotiated.

 B. In the event the City fails, without legal excuse, to complete the sale of the Property, Buyer's sole recourse against the City shall be either the remedy of specific performance of the City's obligations under this Agreement or the return of the Ernest Money held by the City.

 C. If, prior to the date set for closing, this Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms, the City shall return Buyer's Earnest Money to Buyer and neither Party shall have any further liability to the other Party, except as provided in section 14.

 17. Open Space Covenant. As additional consideration for the opportunity to purchase the Property described herein, the Buyer covenants to set aside an area of at least 500 square feet on the real property legally described as:

 West 60 feet of lots 8, 9, 10, and all of lot 11 less North 10 feet of the East 50 feet all in Block 13, First Plat of the West Seattle Land and Improvement Company as recorded in Volume 3 of plats, Page 2, King County Washington;

 (the "Open Space Property") for twenty years as open space for public use. Buyer shall evidence such covenant by granting an easement to the City with respect to the Open Space Property substantially in the form attached hereto as Appendix 1 and by this reference incorporated herein.

 18. Binding Upon Successors; Assignment. Buyer may NOT assign its interest in this Agreement, or in any of the documents described herein, to any party, without the City's prior written consent. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to and bind the executors, administrators, successors and assigns of the City.

 19. Notices. Any notices, demands or other communications required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be delivered (i) in person, against receipt, (ii) by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or (iii) by US Express Mail or a commercial overnight courier that guarantees delivery within the next two business days. Such notices shall be addressed as follows:

 TO BUYER:

 Gary and Camille Elliott

 4831 Beach Drive SW

 Seattle, WA 98116

 TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE:

 Seattle City Light

 Real Estate Services

 700 5th Avenue, Suite 3300

 P.O. Box 34023

 Seattle, WA 98124-4023

 Notice of change of address shall be effective only when done in accordance with this paragraph. All notices complying with this paragraph shall be effective only upon delivery, except that the notice of waiver of conditions precedent set forth in Paragraph 6 above shall be effective upon the date shown postmarked on the envelope in which such notice is sent.

 20. Regulatory Approval. Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to require the City to exercise its discretionary authority under its regulatory ordinances to issue any permits with respect to Buyer's development or use, after closing, of the Property.

 21. Council Approval. In the event that an ordinance of the City of Seattle authorizing and approving this Agreement has not been passed and become effective by June 30, 2006, this Agreement shall terminate, the City shall return the Earnest Money in accordance with section 16.C and, except as provided in section 14, neither Party shall have any further obligation to the other.

 22. Miscellaneous.

 A. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts and all counterparts so executed shall constitute one agreement which shall be binding on all of the Parties, notwithstanding that all of the Parties are not signatory to the original or the same counterpart.

 B. If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid, the other provisions shall not be affected thereby.

 C. This Agreement represents the entire agreement of the Parties and may not be amended except by a written amendment signed by each party hereto.

 D. Each party to this Agreement warrants to the other that it is duly organized and existing and that it and the respective signatories have full right and authority to enter into and consummate this Agreement and all related documents.

 .

 E. Each Party shall execute and deliver or cause to be executed and delivered all instruments reasonably required to convey the Property to Buyer and to vest in each party all rights, interests and benefits intended to be conferred by this Agreement.

 F. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington.

 G. In the event of a dispute, the prevailing Party shall be entitled to payment of its reasonable attorney's fees and costs in negotiating, resolving, arbitrating, or litigating the dispute.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the Buyer have executed this Agreement as of the Agreement Date.

 BUYER: THE CITY:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: ______________________________ By: ___________________________

 Jorge Carrasco, Superintendent

 City Light Department

 By: _____________________________

 7

 APPENDIX 1

 OPEN SPACE EASEMENT

 When Recorded Mail To:

 DEED OF OPEN SPACE EASEMENT

 Grantor [Seller]: .

 Grantee [Buyer]: .

 Legal Description (abbreviated): , Additional legal(s) on Page .

 Assessor's Tax Parcel ID#: .

 Reference Nos. of Documents Released or Assigned: .

 Project [Area]: .

 Parcel [#]: .

 This Deed of Open Space Easement ("Easement") is granted this ________ day of __________, ____, by ___________________ ("Grantor" or "Palm Purchaser") to The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("Grantee" or "Palm Seller").

 Recital

 Palm Purchaser and Palm Seller have entered into a Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement ("Purchase Agreement") dated _____________ with respect to Palm Purchaser's purchase of certain property commonly known as the Palm Substation. Under the terms of that agreement, Palm Purchaser is obligated to set aside certain property for open space purposes for at least twenty years. Palm Purchaser desires to fulfill his obligations under the Purchase and Sale Agreement in order to complete his purchase of the Palm Substation.

 Easement

 In consideration of the terms and conditions contained herein and in the Purchase Agreement, Grantor grants, conveys and quit claims, and Grantee accepts, a nonexclusive open space easement (the "Easement") over, under and across the real property legally described as:

 West 60 feet of lots 8, 9, 10, and all of lot 11 less North 10 feet of the East 50 feet all in Block 13, First Plat of the West Seattle Land and Improvement Company as recorded in Volume 3 of plats, Page 2, King County Washington

 (the "Property").

 This Easement is subject to the following terms and conditions:

 1. This Easement shall terminate on __________, and such termination shall not require further action of Grantor or Grantee. However, at the request of Grantor, Grantee shall execute a release of easement that may be recorded.

 2. The purpose of this Easement is to assure that at least five hundred square feet of the Property will be set aside as greenery, an art display or a floral garden (the "Open Space").

 3. The Open Space shall include at least twenty (50) linear feet of frontage on California Avenue, and shall be in one contiguous area, access sidewalks excepted.

 4. Any activity or use on, above, through, or below the Open Space that is inconsistent with the purpose of this Easement is prohibited. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) no buildings, structures or other improvements of any kind shall be placed in the Open Space, except that seating may be installed for the use of the public and (b) no portion of the Open Space shall be paved or covered with similar material, except that pathways may be installed for the use of the public.

 5. Grantor shall be solely responsible for development and maintenance of the Open Space and shall consult with neighbors and Grantee on development of the Open Space in accordance with this Easement. Grantor shall maintain the Open Space in a clean and attractive condition.

 6. The Open Space shall be open to the public between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and sunset.

 7. Any time that this Easement, the Property itself, or any interest in it is to be transferred by Grantor to a third party, Grantor, its successors and assigns, shall give written notice to the Grantee at least thirty (30) days prior to transfer, such notice containing the name, address and telephone number of the prospective transferee or its representative. In addition, the executory contract for the transfer of any interest in all or a portion of the Property shall describe this Easement, and the document by which Grantor divests itself of such interest shall incorporate the terms of this Easement directly or by reference.

 8. Grantor shall protect, defend, indemnify and save harmless Grantee and its officers, employees and agents, and their successors and assigns from and against any and all liabilities, penalties, losses, costs, damages, claims, causes of action, demands or judgments, or awards of damages, including reasonable attorneys' fees, arising out of or in any way connected with this Easement. For purpose of this Easement only, Grantor waives the immunity granted it for industrial insurance claims pursuant to Revised Code of Washington Chapter 51 to the extent necessary to extend its obligations under this section to any claim, demand, or cause of action brought by or on behalf of any employee of Grantor, including judgments, awards and costs arising therefrom and including attorney's fees. Grantor acknowledges that these provisions were specifically negotiated and have been agreed upon by Grantor.

 9. If Grantee finds what it believes is a violation of the terms of this Easement, Grantee shall give Grantor written notice of the violation and thirty (30) days to correct it, or, under circumstances where the violation cannot reasonably be cured within such thirty (30) day period, such longer time as is reasonably necessary, provided that Grantor has begun curing the violation within such thirty (30) day period and is proceeding diligently to cure the violation. Grantee may bring an action at law or in equity to enforce the terms of this Easement, by seeking to enjoin the violation temporarily or permanently, to require restoration of the Protected Property to its condition prior to the injury, and/or to recover any damages to which that Party may be entitled, as applicable.

 10. This Easement may be modified by agreement of Grantor and Grantee; provided, that any such amendment shall be consistent with the purpose of this Easement and shall not affect its duration. All modifications shall be in writing, signed by both parties and recorded in the real property records of King County.

 11. This Easement shall be a servitude running with the land until ____________. Every provision hereof that applies to Grantor or Grantee shall also apply to, be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Grantor and Grantee and their respective agents, heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, and all other successors as their interests may appear.

 12. Any notices required by this Easement shall be in writing and shall be personally delivered or sent by first class mail to Grantor and Grantee respectively at the following addresses, unless either has notified by the other of a change of address.

 To Grantor: Gary and Camille Elliott

 4831 Beach Drive SW

 Seattle, WA 98116

 To Grantee: Seattle City Light-Real Estate Services

 700 5th Avenue Suite 3300

 P.O. Box 34023

 Seattle, WA 98124-4023

 13. If any provision of this Easement is found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that finding shall not affect the validity, legality or enforceability of the remaining provisions.

 In witness whereof, Grantor, intending to be legally bound to the extent stated herein, has set his hand on the date first written above written.

 GRANTOR______________________

 GRANTOR______________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) SS.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ________ day of ______________________, 200_, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ____________________________________, to me known to be the ________________________ who executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of ______ for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he is authorized to execute said instrument.

 Given under my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate first above written.

 ___________________________

 (Signature of Notary)

 ________________________

 (Print or stamp name of Notary)

 Notary public in and for the State of Washington, residing at

 My appointment expires: __________________

 ACCEPTANCE

 I, __________________, ______________ of _________________ of The City of Seattle, certify that the interest in real property conveyed to The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation by this Grant Deed of Open Space Easement, dated the date first above written, is hereby accepted on behalf of The City of Seattle, pursuant to the authority conferred by Ordinance ______________.

 Dated: __________, 20__

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) SS.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ________ day of ______________________, 200_, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ____________________________________, to me known to be the ________________________ of Seattle Public Utilities of The City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he is authorized to execute said instrument.

 Given under my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate first above written.

 ___________________________

 (Signature of Notary)

 ________________________

 (Print or stamp name of Notary)

 Notary public in and for the State of Washington, residing at

 My appointment expires: __________________

 1

 EXHIBIT B

 QUIT CLAIM DEED

 The GRANTOR, The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation, for and in consideration of Two Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars in hand paid and other valuable consideration, conveys and quit claims to the GRANTEE, Gary and Camille Elliott, husband and wife, all of GRANTOR's rights, title and interest in the following described real estate located in King County, Washington:

 The East 50 feet of Lots 8, 9, 10 and the North 10 feet of the East 50 feet of lot 11, Block 13, First Plat of West Seattle by the West Seattle Land and Improvement Company, as recorded in Volume 3 of Plats, Page 2, King County, Washington,

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The City of Seattle has caused this instrument to be executed by the Superintendent of City Light Department pursuant to Ordinance _________________.

 Dated this _____ day of ___________________, 200__.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 ________________________________

 Jorge Carrasco, Superintendent

 City Light Department

 Exhibit B to Ordinance

 STATE OF WASHINGTON

 COUNTY OF KING

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that JORGE CARRASCO signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute this instrument and acknowledged it as Superintendent of City Light Department of The City of Seattle to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Date: ______day of _______________, 200_

 _______________________________________

 _______________________________________

 Print Name

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Residing at ______________________________

 My Commission Expires:___________________

 1

```
