

********

**Council Bill Number: 115490**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122059**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the 2003 Seattle Fire Code; as adopted by Chapter 22.600.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code; amending and adding various provisions to that Fire Code all as regulated and allowed by the State Building Code Act, Chapter 19.27 of the Revised Code of Washington.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 10, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 17, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 14, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Portable patio fireplace regulations

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 21, 2006
   
**Committee:** Public Safety, Governmental Relations and Arts
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** FIRE-CODES, FIRE-PROTECTION, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS

**Fiscal Note:**115490

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the 2003 Seattle Fire Code; as adopted by Chapter 22.600.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code; amending and adding various provisions to that Fire Code all as regulated and allowed by the State Building Code Act, Chapter 19.27 of the Revised Code of Washington.

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Fire Department and the Seattle Fire Code Advisory Board have reviewed and approved the additions and revisions to the 2003 Seattle Fire Code contained herein; and

 WHEREAS, the additions and revisions to the 2003 Seattle Fire Code contained herein either address a state requirement, clarify a code interpretation, or correct an error or omission which occurred at the adoption of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 104 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended by adding thereto a new subsection 104.14 to read as follows:

104.14 Standby personnel. When, in the opinion of the fire code official, it is essential for public safety in an assembly occupancy or any other place where people congregate, due to the number of persons, or the nature of performance, exhibition, display, contest or activity, the owner, agent or lessee shall employ one or more qualified persons, as required and approved, to be on duty at such place. Such individual shall be subject to the fire code official's orders at all times when so employed and shall be in uniform and remain on duty during the times such places are open to the public, or when such activity is being conducted. Such individuals shall not be required or permitted, while on duty, to perform any other duties than those specified.

 Section 2. Subsection 105.6.28 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 105.6.28 LP-gas. An operational permit is required for:

 1. Storage and use of LP-gas.

 Exceptions: 1. A permit is not required for individual containers with a 125-gallon (473 L) water capacity or less serving occupancies in Group R-3.

 2. A permit is not required for LP-gas containers having a water capacity not exceeding 48 lbs. (nominal 20 lbs. LP-gas) connected to a LP-gas grill unless at a public assembly or on or serving a public way.

3. A permit is not required for storage of up to three spare forklift containers each having a maximum individual water capacity of 104 pounds (10 gallons LP-gas).

2. Operation of cargo tankers that transport LP-gas.

 Section 3. Subsection 105.6.35 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 105.6.35 ~~Places of a~~Assembly occupancy. An operational permit is required to operate an~~place of~~ assembly occupancy with an occupant load of 100 or more.

105.6.35.1 Temporary assembly occupancy. Temporary alterations to the existing means of egress, character or use of any facility used as an assembly occupancy shall be under separate temporary assembly occupancy permit.  Plans shall be submitted when required by the fire code official

.

 Section 4. Section 202 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended by amending the definition of Residential Group R as follows:

 * * *

 [W][B] Residential Group R. Residential Group R includes, among others, the use of a building or structure, or a portion thereof, for sleeping purposes when not classed as Institutional Group I or

 Licensed Care Group LC. Residential occupancies shall include the following:

 R-1 Residential occupancies where the occupants are primarily transient in nature including:

 Boarding houses (transient)

 Hotels (transient)

 Motels (transient)

 R-2 Residential occupancies containing sleeping units or more than two dwelling units where the occupants are primarily permanent in nature, including:

 Apartment houses

 Boarding houses (not transient)

 Convents

 Dormitories

 Fraternities and sororities

 Hotels (nontransient)

 Monasteries

 Motels (nontransient)

 Vacation timeshare properties

 R-3 Residential occupancies where the occupancies are primarily permanent in nature and not classified as R-1, R-2, or I and where buildings do not contain more than two dwelling units as applicable in Section 101.2, including adult family homes and family child day care homes for the care of ~~2~~twelve or fewer children, licensed by the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services, or adult and child care facilities that provide accommodations for five or fewer persons of any age for less than 24- hours. Adult family homes and family child day care homes, or adult and child care facilities that are within a single-family home are permitted to comply with the International Residential Code in accordance with Section 101.2.

 R-4 Residential occupancies shall include buildings arranged for occupancy as Residential Care/Assisted Living Facilities including more than five but not more than 16 occupants.

 Exception: Adult family homes, family child day care homes and foster family care homes shall be classified as Group R-3.

 Group R-4 occupancies shall meet the requirements for construction as defined for Group R-3 except for the height and area limitations provided in Section 503 of the International Building Code or shall comply with the International Residential Codein accordance with Section 101.2.

 * * *

 Section 5. Section 202 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended by adding a new definition of Nightclub to read as follows:

 * * *

 NET EXPLOSIVE WEIGHT (net weight). See Section 3302.1.

NIGHTCLUB. An establishment, other than a theater with fixed seating, which includes all of the following:

1. Provides live entertainment by paid performing artists or by way of recorded music conducted by a person employed or engaged to do so;

2. Has as its primary source of revenue the sale of beverages of any kind for consumption on the premises and/or cover charges;

3. Has an occupant load of 100 or more as determined by the fire code official; and

4. Includes assembly space without fixed seats considered concentrated or standing space per Table 1004.1.2.

Paid performing artists are those entertainers engaged to perform in a for-profit business establishment.

NORMAL TEMPERATURE AND PRESSURE (NTP). See Section 2702.1.

 * * *

 Section 6. Section 302 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 302

 DEFINITIONS

 302.1 Definitions. The following words and terms shall, for the purposes of this chapter and as used elsewhere in this code, have the meanings shown herein.

 BONFIRE. An outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial or recreational purposes and exceeding the size of a recreational fire.

 HI-BOY. A cart used to transport hot roofing materials on a roof.

 OPEN BURNING. The burning of materials wherein products of combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber. Open burning does not include road flares, smudgepots and similar devices associated with safety or occupational uses typically considered open flames, bonfires or recreational fires or patio fireplaces. For the purpose of this definition, a chamber shall be regarded as enclosed when, during the time combustion occurs, only apertures, ducts, stacks, flues or chimneys necessary to provide combustion air and permit the escape of exhaust gas are open.

PATIO FIREPLACE. A device that functions the same as a masonry or factory-built indoor fireplace except that they are portable, outdoor, solid-fuel burning patio fireplaces designed to provide ambience and warmth in outdoor settings. Patio fireplaces come in many styles and are generally substantially constructed of steel with heavy-duty screening around the firebox, although some types are made of concrete or clay with a small hearth opening and are equipped with a short chimney or a chimney opening in the top. The design also includes a stand to elevate the firebox above the surface upon which it is placed to provide clearance to combustible materials. Use of a patio fireplace does not constitute open burning.

 POWERED INDUSTRIAL TRUCK. A forklift, tractor, platform lift truck or motorized hand truck powered by an electrical motor or internal combustion engine. Powered industrial trucks do not include farm vehicles or automotive vehicles for highway use.

 RECREATIONAL FIRE. An outdoor fire burning materials other than rubbish where the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor fireplace, patio fireplace, barbeque grill or barbeque pit and has a total fuel area of 3 feet (914 mm) or less in diameter and 2 feet (610 mm) or less in height for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth or similar purposes. ~~A recreational fire may be contained in an incinerator, outdoor fireplace, barbeque grill or barbeque pit.~~

 Section 7. Section 307 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 307

BONFIRES, OPEN BURNING, PATIO FIREPLACES AND RECREATIONAL FIRES

 307.1 General. Open burning is prohibited in the City of Seattle. Bonfires, use of patio fireplaces and recreational fires shall be in accordance with Section 307.

 307.2 Permit required. A permit shall be obtained from the fire code official in accordance with Section 105.6 prior to kindling a fire for recognized silvicultural or range or wildlife management practices, prevention or control of disease or pests, or a bonfire. Application for such approval shall only be presented by and permits issued to the owner of the land upon which the fire is to be kindled.

307.2.1 Authorization. Where required by state or local law or regulations, open burning shall only be permitted with prior approval from the state or local air and water quality management authority, provided that all conditions specified in the authorization are followed.

307.3 Bonfires. A bonfire is not allowed except by permit from the fire code official.

 307.4 Recreational fires. Recreational fires shall ~~exceed a pile size of 3 feet (914 mm) in diameter and 2 feet (610 mm) in height and shall~~not be conducted within 25 feet (7620 mm) of a structure or combustible material or vegetation. ~~Trash, yard waste, rubbish and paper are prohibited as fuel for recreational fires.~~ Conditions which could cause a fire to spread within 25 feet (7620 mm) of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.

Point of Information  Code interpretation 307.4.1 is rescinded.

307.5 Patio fireplaces. Patio fireplaces are prohibited on decks and balconies and within 10 feet (3048 mm) of a structure or combustible material or vegetation.

Exception: One- and two-family dwellings.  307.6 General burning prohibitions. Trash, yard waste, rubbish and paper are prohibited as fuel for bonfires, recreational fires and fires in patio fireplaces. Smoke or odor emissions from bonfires, recreational fires and use of patio fireplaces that make such fires hazardous shall be prohibited. The fire code official is authorized to order the extinguishment of a bonfire, recreational fire or fire in a patio fireplace which creates or adds to a hazardous situation.

 Point of Information

 Hazards from bonfires, recreational fires and fires in patio fireplaces may include but are not limited to smoke or odor emissions causing potential for false alarms, medical alarms, and hazards to health, and exposure to other structures from fire.

 When conducting a bonfire, recreational fire or using a patio fireplace, fire extinguishing equipment in accordance with SFC 307.5 shall be available for immediate use.

 For additional regulations information pertaining to outdoor fires and burning, see RCW 70.94 or go to www.pscleanair for information on how to register an air quality complaint with the Puget Sound Clean Air Agency.

 307.8~~5~~ Attendance. Bonfires, fires in patio fireplaces  and recreational fires shall be constantly attended until the fire is extinguished. A minimum of one portable fire extinguisher complying with Section 906 with a minimum 4-A rating or other approved on-site fire-extinguishing equipment, such as dirt, sand, water barrel, garden hose or water truck, shall be available for immediate utilization.

 Section 8. Subsection 308.1 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 308.1 General. This section shall control open flames, fire and burning on all premises.

 Exception: Bonfires,~~and~~ recreational fires and use of patio fireplaces shall be in accordance with Section 307.

 Section 9. Subsection 603.3 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 603.3 Fuel oil storage systems. Fuel oil storage systems shall be installed in accordance with Chapter 34 of this code. Fuel oil piping systems shall be installed in accordance with the ~~International~~Seattle Mechanical Code.

~~Exception: Fuel-oil tanks containing Class II or III combustible liquids not exceeding an individual or aggregate capacity of 275 gallons (1041 L) connected to oil-burning equipment and located inside buildings are allowed outside of a Group H occupancy. All other applicable requirements of Chapter 34 apply.~~~~~~

 Section 10.Subsection 604.2.14.1 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 604.2.14.1 Emergency power. An emergency power system shall be provided. Where the emergency system is a generator set inside the building, the system shall be located in a separate room enclosed with 2-hour fire-resistance-rated fire barrier assemblies. System supervision with manual start and transfer features shall be provided at the fire command center.

Exception: A generator set with a fuel tank system not exceeding 660 gallons is not required to be located in a rated room when installed in a sprinklered parking garage of type I or II construction, unless a 1-hour separation is required to separate control areas in accordance with Table 2703.1.1(1).

* * *

 Section 11.Chapter 8 of the Seattle Fire Code is amended by adding thereto a new Section 807 to read as follows:

SECTION 807  DECORATIVE MATERIALS USED IN

 TEMPORARY ASSEMBLY OCCUPANCIES

 807.1 General. Combustible decorative materials used in temporary assembly occupancies shall be flame resistant as determined by the fire code official.

 Exceptions:

 1. The display of salable goods.

 2. Educational materials and product brochures that are stored, distributed and maintained in an approved manner.

 3. Live vegetation of an approved type.

Section 12. Section 903 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended by adding thereto a new subsection 903.2.1.6 to read as follows:

903.2.1.6 Nightclub. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout an occupancy with a nightclub. Existing nightclubs constructed prior to July 1, 2006, shall be provided with automatic sprinklers not later than December 1, 2007. The fire code official, for the application of this rule, may establish an occupant load based on the observed use of the occupancy in accordance with Table 1004.1.2.

Section 13. Subsection 903.3.1.2 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 903.3.1.2 NFPA 13R sprinkler systems. Where allowed in LC Occupancies and buildings of Group R, up to and including four stories in height, automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed throughout in accordance with NFPA 13R.

903.3.1.2.1 Balconies. Sprinkler protection shall be provided for exterior balconies and ground floor patios of dwelling units where the building is of Type V construction. Sidewall sprinklers that are used to protect such areas shall be permitted to be located such that their deflectors are within 1 inch (25 mm) to 6 inches (152 mm) below the structural members, and a maximum distance of 14 inches (356 mm) below the deck of the exterior balconies that are constructed of open wood joist construction.

Section 14. Subsection 903.3.1.3 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 903.3.1.3 NFPA 13D sprinkler systems. Where allowed, automatic sprinkler systems installed in one- and two-family dwellings ~~, and townhouses where each unit has its own water service and when approved by the fire code official,~~ shall be installed throughout in accordance with NFPA 13D. A NFPA 13D sprinkler system may be installed in townhouses when approved by the fire code official where each unit has its own water service, each unit exits to a public way, no unit is located above any other unit or common space, and each unit and contiguous attic and crawl spaces are separated from other units by at least a one-hour fire partition.

 Section 15. Subsection 903.3.8 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is hereby repealed.

 Section 16. Subsection 903.3.9 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is hereby repealed.

 Section 17. Subsection 903.4 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 903.4 Sprinkler system monitoring and alarms. All valves controlling the water supply for automatic sprinkler systems, pumps, tanks, water levels and temperatures, critical air pressures, and water-flow switches on all sprinkler systems shall be electrically supervised.

 Exceptions:

 1. ~~Non-required~~A~~a~~utomatic sprinkler systems protecting one- and two-family dwellings.

 2. Limited area systems serving fewer than 20 sprinklers.

 3. Automatic sprinkler systems installed in accordance with NFPA 13R where a common supply main is used to supply both domestic water and the automatic sprinkler system, and a separate shutoff valve for the automatic sprinkler system is not provided.

 4. Jockey pump control valves that are sealed or locked in the open position.

 5. Control valves to commercial kitchen hoods, paint spray booths or dip tanks that are sealed or locked in the open position.

 6. Valves controlling the fuel supply to fire pump engines that are sealed or locked in the open position.

 7. Trim valves to pressure switches in dry, preaction and deluge sprinkler systems that are sealed or locked in the open position.

 * * *

 Section 18. Subsection 905.3.1 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 905.3.1 Building height. Class III standpipe systems shall be installed throughout buildings where the floor level of the highest story is located more than 30 feet (9144 mm) above the lowest level of the fire department vehicle access, or where the floor level of the lowest story is located more than 30 feet (9144 mm) below the highest level of fire department vehicle access.

 Exceptions:

 1. Class I standpipes are allowed in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2.

 2. Class I manual standpipes are allowed in open parking garages where the highest floor is located not more than 150 feet (45 720 mm) above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access.

 3. Class I manual dry standpipes are allowed in open parking garages that are subject to freezing temperatures, provided that the hose connections are located as required for Class II standpipes in accordance with Section 905.5.

 4. Class I standpipes are allowed in basements equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system.

5. Standpipe systems are not required in townhouses.

 Section 19. Subsection 906.1 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 906.1 Where required. Portable fire extinguishers shall be installed in the following locations.

 1. In all Group A, B, E, F, H, I , M, R-1, R-2, R-4 and S occupancies.

 Exception: ~~Fire extinguishers are not required for residential buildings that do not have interior common space, such as townhouses.~~In all Group A, B and E occupancies equipped throughout with quick- response sprinklers, fire extinguishers shall be required only in special-hazard areas.

 2. Within 30 feet (9144 mm) of commercial cooking equipment.

 3. In areas where flammable or combustible liquids are stored, used or dispensed.

 4. On each floor of structures under construction, except Group R-3 occupancies, in accordance with Section 1415.1.

 5. Where required by the sections indicated in Table 906.1.

 6. Special-hazard areas, including but not limited to laboratories, computer rooms and generator rooms, where required by the fire code official.

 Section 20. Subsection 907.2.9 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 907.2.9 Group R-2. Except in townhouses meeting the requirements of Section 907.2.9.2, ~~A~~a manual and automatic fire alarm system shall be installed in Group R-2 occupancies where:

 1. Any dwelling unit or sleeping unit is located three or more stories above the lowest level of exit discharge;

 2. Any dwelling unit or sleeping unit is located more than one story below the highest level of exit discharge of exits serving the dwelling unit or sleeping unit; or

 3. The building contains more than 16 dwelling units or sleeping units.

 Exceptions:

 1. A fire alarm system is not required in buildings containing more than 16 dwelling units or sleeping units not more than two stories in height where all dwelling units or sleeping units and contiguous attic and crawl spaces are separated from each other and public or common areas by at least 1-hour fire partitions and each dwelling unit or sleeping unit has an exit directly to a public way, exit court or yard.

2. A fire alarm system is not required in buildings containing more than 16 dwelling units or sleeping units that do not have interior corridors serving dwelling units and are protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Sections 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, provided that dwelling units either have a means of egress door opening directly to an exterior exit access that leads directly to the exits or are served by open-ended corridors designed in accordance with Section 1022.6, Exception 4.

907.2.9.1 Automatic detection. Automatic heat detection shall be provided in any unsprinklered interior areas outside dwelling units other than attics and crawl spaces.

907.2.9.2 Townhouses. Where a fire alarm system is required in accordance with Section 907.2.9, a fire alarm system is not required for townhouse structures meeting all of the following criteria:  1. Each unit has its own exit to a public way.

 2. No unit is located above any other unit or common space.

 3. Each unit and contiguous attic and crawl spaces are separated from other units by at least a one-hour fire partition.

 4. Each unit is provided with an interconnected smoke alarm system that includes heat detectors in the garage.

 5. The sprinkler waterflow switch activates the interconnected smoke alarm and heat detection system within the affected unit.

Section 21. Subsection 909.11 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 909.11 Power systems. The smoke control system shall be supplied with two sources of power. Primary power shall be the normal building power systems. Secondary power shall be from an approved emergency power system complying with the Seattle Electrical Code. The emergency power source and its transfer switches shall be in a separate room from the normal power transformers and switch gear and shall be enclosed in a room constructed of not less than 1-hour fire- resistance-rated fire barriers, ventilated directly to and from the exterior. Power distribution from the two sources shall be by independent routes. Transfer to full emergency power shall be automatic and within 60 seconds of failure of the primary power. The systems shall comply with the Seattle Electrical Code.

Exception: Standby power sources, including tap ahead of the main disconnect may be used to comply with Seattle Building Code Section 716.5.3.1 exception 2, paragraph 2.1.

909.11.1 Power sources and power surges. Elements of the smoke management system relying on volatile memories or the like shall be supplied with uninterruptable power sources of sufficient duration to span a 15-minute primary power interruption. Elements of the smoke management system susceptible to power surges shall be suitably protected by conditioners, suppressors or other approved means.

Section 22. Subsection 1007.4 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

[B]1007.4 Elevators. An elevator to be considered part of an accessible means of egress shall comply with the emergency operation and signaling device requirements of Section 2.27 of ASME A17.1. ~~Standby~~Legally required standby power shall be provided in accordance with Sections 2702 and ~~3003~~the Seattle Electrical Code. The elevator shall be accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit.

 Exceptions:

 1. Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit in open parking garages.

 2. Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit in buildings and facilities equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2.

 Section 23. The footnotes to Table 2703.1.1(1) of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code are amended as follows:

 For SI: 1 cubic foot = 0.023 m3, 1 pound = 0.454 kg, 1 gallon = 3.785 L.

 a. For use of control areas, see Section 2703.8.3.

 b. The aggregate quantity in use and storage shall not exceed the quantity listed for storage.

 c. The quantities of alcoholic beverages in retail and wholesale sales occupancies shall not be limited providing the liquids are packaged in individual containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons. In retail and wholesale sales occupancies, the quantities of medicines, foodstuffs, consumer or industrial products, and cosmetics containing not more than 50 percent by volume of water-miscible liquids with the remainder of the solutions not being flammable shall not be limited, provided that such materials are packaged in individual containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons.

 d. Maximum allowable quantities shall be increased 100 percent in buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. Where Note e also applies, the increase for both notes shall be applied accumulatively.

 e. Maximum allowable quantities shall be increased 100 percent when stored in approved storage cabinets, gas cabinets, exhausted enclosures or safety cans. Where Note d also applies, the increase for both notes shall be applied accumulatively.

 f. Quantities shall not be limited in a building equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system.

 g. Allowed only in buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system.

 h. Containing not more than the maximum allowable quantity per control area of Class IA, Class IB or Class IC flammable liquids.

 i. ~~Inside a building, the maximum capacity of a combustible liquid storage system that is connected to a fuel-oil piping system shall be 660 gallons provided such system conforms to this code.~~A maximum quantity of 660 gallons of combustible liquid is allowed in one single control area when in a tank connected to a generator or other fuel oil system provided such tank is installed in accordance with Chapter 34.

 j. Quantities in parenthesis indicate quantity units in parenthesis at the head of each column.

 k. A maximum quantity of 200 pounds of solid or 20 gallons of liquid Class 3 oxidizers is allowed when such materials are necessary for maintenance purposes, operation or sanitation of equipment when the storage containers and the manner of storage are approved.

 l. Net weight of pyrotechnic composition of the fireworks. Where the net weight of the pyrotechnic composition of the fireworks is not known, 25 percent of the gross weight of the fireworks including packaging shall be used.

 m. For gallons of liquids, divide the amount in pounds by 10 in accordance with Section 2703.1.2.

 n. For storage and display quantities in Group M and storage quantities in Group S occupancies complying with Section 2703.11, see Table 2703.11.1.

o. The closed use maximum allowable quantity is allowed to be exceeded in a single control area when combustible liquids are contained within a protected aboveground tank system installed in accordance with SFD Administrative Rule 34.01.04 Use Of Protected Aboveground Tanks For Fuel Storage Inside Buildings.

 Section 24. Subsection 3404.2.7.5.6 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 3404.2.7.5.6 Location of connections that are made or broken. Filling, withdrawal and vapor-recovery connections for Class I, II and IIIA liquids which are made and broken shall be located outside of buildings at a location away from sources of ignition and not less than 5 feet (1524 mm) away from building openings. Such connections shall be closed and liquid tight when not in use and shall be properly identified.

Exception: Fill connections for diesel fuel tanks attached to emergency generators may be located within loading docks of buildings when installed within 10 ft. (3048 mm) of the exterior opening of the loading dock, and when there are no solid doors between the loading dock and the exterior.

 Section 25. Subsection 3404.2.9.4.2 of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 3404.2.9.4.2 Maximum quantity allowed outside of a liquid storage room. Aboveground storage tanks storing Class I, II and III-A liquids inside buildings in quantities exceeding the maximum allowable quantity per control area set forth in Table 2703.1.1(1) shall be confined to a liquid storage room constructed and separated as required by the Seattle Building Code and complying with Section 3404.3.7.

Exception: Protected aboveground tanks containing Class II or III- A liquids in accordance with SFD Administrative Rule 34.01.04 Use Of Protected Aboveground Tanks For Fuel Storage Inside Buildings.

 Section 26. Table 3803.4 of the Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 TABLE 3803.4 SPECIAL USES OF LP-GAS OUTSIDE OF BUILDINGS

 Use/Activity Location Maximum Individual Maximum Aggregate Container Capacity Quantity

 Outdoor Cooking Fire 50 lbs. water capacity1 100 lbs.water capacity District (nominal 20 lbs. LP-gas (nominal 40 lbs. LP-gas (except R-2 and capacity) capacity) R-3 where allowed)

 Elsewhere 50 lbs. water capacity 357 lbs. water capacity (nominal 20 lbs. LP-gas (nominal 150 lbs. LP-gas capacity)1 capacity)

 Fueling Fire Prohibited Prohibited Temporary Heating District Equipment at Construction Sites

 Elsewhere 500 gallons 500 gallons

 Fire 200 lbs. water capacity 400 lbs. water capacity District (nominal 84 lbs. LP-gas (nominal 168 lbs. LP-gas capacity) capacity)

 Fueling Tar Kettles

 Elsewhere 3024 lbs. water capacity 3024 lbs. water capacity (nominal 1260 lbs. LP-gas (nominal 1260 lbs. LP-gas capacity) capacity)

 On Roofs of 200 lbs. water capacity 400 lbs. water capacity Buildings (nominal 84 lbs. LP-gas (nominal 168 lbs. LP-gas capacity) capacity)

 Use/Activity Location Maximum Individual Maximum Aggregate Container Capacity Quantity

 Fueling Hot Tar Fire 200 lbs. water capacity 400 lbs. water capacity Tank Trucks District (nominal 84 lbs. LP-gas (nominal 168 lbs. LP-gas capacity) capacity)

 Elsewhere 500 gallons 500 gallons

 Occupied ~~72~~95 lbs. 300 lbs. water capacity Fueling Roofing Buildings water capacity (nominal (nominal 126 lbs. LP-gas Torches ~~30~~40 lbs. capacity) LP-gas capacity)

 Unoccupied ~~72~~95 lbs. 605 lbs. water capacity Buildings water capacity (nominal (nominal 252 lbs. LP-gas ~~30~~40 lbs. capacity) LP-gas capacity)

 1 When the LP-gas is separated from the public by minimum of 30 feet, or by a noncombustible partition, the maximum allowable individual container size may be increased to 239 lbs. water capacity (nominal 100 lbs. LP-gas capacity) and the maximum allowable aggregate quantity may be increased to 1,000 lbs. water capacity (nominal 420 lbs. LP-gas capacity).

 Section 27. Subsection D103.3(4) of the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is amended as follows:

 D103.3~~4~~ Dead ends. Dead-end fire apparatus access roads in excess of 150 feet (45 720 mm) shall be provided with width and turnaround provisions in accordance with Table D103.3. Required turnarounds shall be located not more than 150 feet (45 720 mm) from the dead-end terminus of the fire apparatus access road.

Section 28. Figure D103.1 the 2003 Seattle Fire Code is hereby repealed, and a new Figure D101.3 is adopted to read as follows:

 Figure D 103.1

 96 Foot Cul-de-sac

 120 Foot Hammerhead

 60 Foot Y - Acceptable Alternative to 120 Foot Hammerhead

 Acceptable Alernative to 120 Foot Hammerhead

 Section 39. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Diane Hansen/DMH

 Fire Code Supplement

 January 13, 2006

 version #2

 27

```
