

********

**Council Bill Number: 115406**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121968**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the 3rd Avenue NE extension project in the Northgate Urban Center, lifting a budget proviso that had restricted spending on the 3rd Avenue NE extension project and authorizing an agreement with King County.

**Status:** Passed as Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 24, 2005
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 31, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 31, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 26, 2005
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** NORTHGATE, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, KING-COUNTY STREET-CONSTRUCTION, BUDGET

**Fiscal Note:**115406

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the 3rd Avenue NE extension project in the Northgate Urban Center, lifting a budget proviso that had restricted spending on the 3rd Avenue NE extension project and authorizing an agreement with King County.

 WHEREAS, anticipated growth and development in the Northgate Urban Center will warrant additional transportation facilities to accommodate that growth; and

 WHEREAS, the Northgate Comprehensive Plan envisioned a mixed-use development pattern within the Urban Center that would be pedestrian and bicycle friendly and supported by transit; and

 WHEREAS, the planned development of what is known as the "South Lot", bordered by NE 100th Street on the south, NE 103rd Street on the north, 1st Avenue NE on the west, and 5th Avenue NE on the east, and consisting of a mixed-use project on 5.9 acres on the east portion of that parcel and a future King County transit-oriented development adjacent to the existing Transit Center, will require a new street (the extension of 3rd Avenue NE) to improve access and circulation; and

 WHEREAS, the private property owner, Lorig & Associates LLC, and King County have agreed to dedicate the land needed for this new street; and

 WHEREAS, the private property owner, Lorig & Associates LLC, has shown a commitment to proceed with development of a mixed-use project by submitting a MUP application specifying the same; and

 WHEREAS, King County has secured a grant for the construction of the new 3rd Avenue, but the grant may not be used for design; and

 WHEREAS, King County and City of Seattle staff have negotiated an interlocal agreement setting forth the City and the County's roles and responsibilities and a commitment by the County to cover the balance of the unfunded costs; and

 WHEREAS, King County will take the lead in designing the new 3rd Avenue, with direction and support from the Seattle Department of Transportation and input from the community; and

 WHEREAS, the design of 3rd Avenue will reflect the goals and objectives of the Northgate Comprehensive Plan and support and enhance pedestrian and bicycle circulation, and provide an alternative to parallel north/south streets; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The following budget proviso is removed and is no longer a restriction for any purpose, including for Subsection 1(b) of Ordinance 121660:

 Department Green Sheet Proviso BCL/Project Code #

 Seattle #109-4-A-2 None of the money appropriated Policy, Planning Department of 2005 for 2005 for SDOT's Capital and Major Transportation Projects Management BCL can be Project spent to pay for 3rd Avenue NE Development Extension project, Project ID (18310) Project TC366460, until authorized by TC366460 future ordinance. ..TX: Section 2. The Director of Transportation, or her designee, is hereby authorized to execute an agreement with King County substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A, specifying the City and County's roles in the design and construction of 3rd Avenue NE, and declaring a commitment by the County to cover unfunded costs.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment: Exhibit A: Interlocal Agreement between the City of Seattle and King County regarding the Design and Construction of 3rdAvenue, NE.

 August 9, 2005 version # 2

 ATTACHMENT A:

 NORTHGATE COORDINATED TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLAN & THIRD AVE NORTHEAST BEWEEEN NE 100TH Street & NE 103RD Street FUNDING AGREEMENT

 between KING COUNTY and THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 This Agreement is made and entered into this _____ day of___________, 2005 between KING COUNTY, through its Department of Transportation, referred to herein as the "County", a home rule charter county of the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle, referred to herein as the "City".

 Recitals

 A. The City and the County are working together to implement specific aspects of the Northgate Area Comprehensive Plan adopted in the Seattle Comprehensive Plan. Northgate is a designated urban center under Countywide and City growth management plans and the location of the principal transit transfer hub in all of north King County. It was one of three development sites identified in 1998 at the launch of the County's Transit Oriented Development (TOD) program. Progress toward Northgate urban center housing and job targets has lagged significantly behind other Seattle urban centers.

 B. In December of 2003, the City Council passed proposals that amended Northgate Overlay District development regulations, approved a development agreement to promote redevelopment of Northgate Mall, and provided the City with an option to purchase land to improve Thornton Creek water quality and provide public open space.

 C. The City Council further approved initial funding for a Coordinated Transportation Investment Plan (CTIP) and established a broad based advisory group, the Northgate Stakeholders. A goal of the CTIP is to analyze forecasted development proposals so that mitigation measures can be more predictable, rational and equitable than is the result with piecemeal permit decisions. The County encouraged the City to take a comprehensive view on transportation that their CTIP effort seeks to address and provided the City past traffic studies financed by the County.

 D. Lorig Associates has an option to purchase 5.9 acres on the east half of the lot south of Northgate Mall and south of NE 103rd St., commonly referred to as the South Lot, and is proposing approximately 500 housing units and retail space.

 E. In August 2004, the City Council approved both a memorandum of understanding with Lorig Associates regarding joint development of the South Lot and funding to purchase land and to construct the Thornton Creek Water Quality Channel stormwater project. The Council also approved the scope of work for the CTIP and appropriated additional funding.

 F. The Puget Sound Regional Council (PSRC) has allocated a $1.3 million grant to King County to construct an extension of 3rd Ave. NE between NE 103rd St. and NE 100th St. This street improvement will provide a new north/south arterial and pedestrian connections through the South Lot.

 G. The City appropriated $500,000 toward the unfunded costs of 3rd Ave. NE in a 2005 budget proviso that requires Seattle City County approval by ordinance of this interlocal agreement specifying the City and County roles and responsibilities, a commitment by the County to pay any unfunded costs, and other conditions.

 H. The potential to move the County Metro's Park and Ride lot at 5th Ave. NE and NE 112th St. to the vicinity of the Northgate Transit Center and future light rail station will consolidate park and ride facilities in the area for more efficient transit operations and permit the land to be developed to another use, potentially as a park and open space at the former park and ride location.

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

 SECTION 1. COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES

 A. The County will contribute $90,000 in cash toward the Coordinated Transportation Investment Plan (CTIP). Of this amount, the County will reimburse the City for up to $90,000 of expenses it incurs for transportation analysis related to bus movements and the King County transit oriented development. The County has spent $10,000 for in- kind staff and County consultant assistance for parking and traffic management analysis in the Northgate area.

 B. The County will provide the City with information applicable to the CTIP such as traffic information, King County Metro Transit operations information, Transit requirements and any relevant information on future plans for Transit facilities at the Northgate Transit Center.

 C. The County will review and respond to the City in a timely fashion when the City requests information or reviews of draft documents.

 D. The County will pay the City within 45 days of receiving an appropriate project report and invoice from the City. The County agrees to pay the City in accordance with the payment schedule detailed in Section 3, below.

 E. The County agrees to design and construct the 3rd Ave. NE street extension project (Puget Sound Regional Council Regional Transportation Improvement Program project reference number MET-141C) in conformance with all applicable City codes, plans and policies. The project includes a 73' right of way with two through lanes and a turn lane (each 11' width) and 12' sidewalks on the east and west sides of the street. On-street parking will be provided. The County will dedicate up to 36.5 feet of right of way at no cost to the City for the construction of the western half of 3rd Ave. NE which will be a public street with sidewalks, with a total area of 21,876 sq. ft. See, Exhibit A. The drawing attached as Exhibit A is under discussion between the parties and is not an agreed-upon final design, nor does it necessarily comply with City requirements.

 F. The County agrees to pay cost overruns and any additional other unfunded costs beyond the amount of the grant award and the City's payment of $500,000 as specified in Section 2.A.

 G. For purposes of permit issuance only, the County agrees to submit the design of the 3rd Ave. NE improvements to the City for review and approval at 30% of design completion, 90% of design completion and completion of design and bid documents. Designs will be submitted to the City Traffic Engineer.

 H. The County recognizes that the City and private utilities may desire to locate facilities within the 3rd Avenue NE right of way during its construction at the cost of the City, private utilities, or adjacent developers and the County will work with the City to develop mutually acceptable designs to accommodate the needs of those utilities during the design of the roadway. In particular, a sedimentation vault for the Thornton Creek Water Quality Channel may be constructed within the street right- of-way at the southern end of the alignment. Construction and placement of utilities will be according to the City Street Improvement Manual and subject to City approval.

 I. At its cost, the County will construct (at an estimated cost of $80,000) an improved pedestrian corridor running east to west across its park and ride lot from the new 3rd Ave. NE to the Northgate Transit Center and will coordinate the planning and design jointly with Lorig Associates and the City.

 J. The County will make a good faith effort to meet the combined project schedule in Section 4.

 K. The County will install at its cost a traffic signal at the intersection of NE 100th St. and 2nd Ave. NE, and may make improvements, to the existing signal at 100th and 1st Ave. to accommodate southbound left turn movements, and westbound right- turning movements subject to the City's approval.

 L. The County may install or repair sidewalks between 2nd Ave. NE and

 3rd Ave. NE on the north side of NE 100th St. The width of the sidewalk is to be 12 feet from the face of the curb to the back of the sidewalk in conformance with City code requirements.

 SECTION 2. CITY RESPONSIBILITIES

 A. The City will reimburse the County for up to $500,000 for environmental compliance, design, engineering, permit review, and construction inspection costs incurred by the County for a 3rd Ave. NE extension between NE 100th St. and NE 103rd St.. The improvements include pedestrian amenities (such as but not limited to crosswalks, pedestrian lighting, etc.) at the intersection of NE 100th St. and 3rd Ave. NE, as well as NE 103rd St. and 3rd Ave. NE.

 B. The City and the County agree that design and engineering costs incurred for any underground tunnels that may be constructed between the Lorig development and the County lot to the west as part of the 3rd Ave. NE extension or future developments are not eligible for reimbursement by the City.

 C. The City agrees to provide the County with opportunities to review and comment on the CTIP analyses and work products, and agrees to incorporate data and information regarding transit operations and requirements into the CTIP.

 D. The City agrees to pay the County within 45 days of receiving an appropriate project report and invoice from the County. The City agrees to pay the County in accordance with the payment schedule detailed in Section 3, below.

 E. The City agrees to work with the County to identify the need for and to jointly evaluate options for bus layover. The evaluation will consider near-term needs, that is, until the County's new transit oriented development Northgate TOD is planned and constructed; and long-term needs, that is, after the County's TOD development is built. The City agrees to allow the two bus layover spaces currently located on the north side of NE 100th St. between 2nd Ave. NE and 3rd Ave. NE to continue at that location. The City will permit four layover spaces and one bus zone on 100th St. between 3rd Ave. and 5th Ave. as shown on Exhibit B. These layover spaces are needed 24 hours per day year-round. The City will review the permitted layover annually with the County. Any relocation of these layover spaces in the future would require mutual agreement and negotiation between the City and the County.

 F. The City agrees to complete its review of and comment on County design submittals on 3rd Ave. NE improvements within fifteen working days of their receipt

 G. Based on the City's review of the County's warrant request, the City has agreed to permit the traffic signal at NE 100th St. and 2nd Ave. NE, and improvements to the existing signal at 1st Ave. NE and NE 100th St. to accommodate southbound left turn and westbound right turn movements.

 H. The City agrees to design and obtain a permit for a traffic signal and associated curb and pavement improvements on the north side of the street at the intersection of 3rd Ave. NE and NE 103rd St. The City will pay the County to construct these two items (signal and curb/pavement) based on the bids for construction. The County will pay the incremental cost for a signal controller compatible with transit signal priority, and the City will allow for hardware communication for future transit signal priority.

 I. For permitting purposes only, the City agrees to designate the City Traffic Engineer as the County's point of contact for review and approval of design submittals.

 J. The Mayor agrees to propose legislation to the Seattle City Council to dedicate land to establish a 73' right of way adjacent to the Northgate Commons and Thornton Creek Channel projects to the east and the King County property to the west as necessary for the 3rd Ave NE street extension project as illustrated in Exhibit A and to designate the new 3rd Ave. NE as a minor arterial. If the Seattle City Council does not accept dedication of this street by December 31, 2006, this agreement will terminate and the parties will have no further obligations under this agreement unless the term is extended prior to such date by mutual agreement of the Mayor of Seattle and the King County Executive, provided, that if this Agreement is terminated as a result of the failure of the Seattle City Council to accept dedication of this street by December 31, 2006, then each Party shall be entitled to be reimbursed for any expenses incurred to that date for which that Party has achieved a milestone as set forth in Section 3, provided that such party submits an invoice and other required documentation for the amount due within thirty (30) days of the contract termination.

 K. The City agrees to make a good faith effort to meet the project schedule in Section 4.

 SECTION 3. REIMBURSEMENT OF ELIGIBLE COSTS

 A. Payment of Funds Committed Under this Agreement to the City shall be in accordance with the following milestones.

 1. The County will pay the City $30,000 upon submission by the City of a draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the CTIP for the County's review and comment.

 2. The County will pay the City an additional $30,000 upon the publication of a draft EIS for public comment for the area covered by the CTIP process.

 3. The County will pay the City an additional $30,000 upon the City's publication of the Final EIS.

 4. The County will provide the City with a report from its financial system showing the in-kind costs associated with the project incurred by the County during the County's work on this project.

 B. Payment of Funds Committed Under This Agreement to the County shall be in accordance with the following milestones.

 1. The City will pay the County up to $125,000 upon the completion of the preliminary engineering, up to 30% design, of the 3rd Ave. NE extension project and related improvements. The County will submit an appropriate invoice and a set of preliminary design drawings to the City for the City's review and approval.

 2. The City will pay the County up to $250,000 upon the City's approval for permitting purposes of 90% design documents by the County. The County will submit an appropriate invoice and a set of design documents to the City for the City's review.

 3. The City will pay the County up to $125,000 upon completion and the City's approval for permitting purposes of a full set of bid documents for the 3rd Ave. extension project. The County will submit an appropriate invoice and a full set of bid documents to the City for the City's review.

 4. As part of the solicitation for bids for the 3rd Ave. NE extension project, the County will solicit bids for the traffic signal and associated curb and pavement improvements on the north side of the street at the intersection of 3rd and NE 103rd St.. Upon the City's acceptance of the bid price for that work, the County will construct those improvements as part of the 3rd Ave. NE extension project. The City will be responsible for reimbursing the County for the payments it makes those improvements.

 SECTION 4. COMBINED PROJECT SCHEDULES

 1. June, 2005 - City completes 2010 and 2030 CTIP traffic analyses that are necessary for planning and design of 3rd Ave. NE Improvements.

 3. June, 2005 - Northgate Stakeholder Review of CTIP Traffic Modeling Results

 5. November, 2005 - County completes NEPA environmental and preliminary design reviews

 6. March, 2006 - City and County complete all necessary utility agreements

 7. June, 2006 - utility installations begin

 8. February, 2007 - street construction begins

 9. December, 2007 - street opens

 SECTION 5. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.

 The City and the County shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations in performing under this Agreement.

 SECTION 6. LEGAL RELATIONS.

 A. This Agreement is solely for the benefit of the parties hereto and gives no right to any other party. No joint venture, agent- principal relationship, or partnership is formed as a result of this Agreement. The employees of the City or individuals providing paid or volunteer services to the City shall be considered the employees, volunteers, agents or representatives of the City and shall not be deemed, nor represent themselves, to be the employees, volunteers, agents or representatives of the County. In addition, the employees of the County or individuals providing paid or volunteer services to the County shall be considered the employees, volunteers, agents or representatives of the County and shall not be deemed, nor represent themselves, to be the employees, volunteers, agents or representatives of the City.

 B. This Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington in effect on the date of execution of this Agreement. The Superior Court of King County, Washington, shall have exclusive jurisdiction and venue over any legal action arising under this Agreement between the County and City.

 C. The City shall be solely and completely responsible for all acts and omissions of its employees, volunteers and all other such persons acting on its behalf. The City acknowledges that the County shall have no responsibility for overseeing or monitoring the performance of such persons. In addition, the County shall be solely and completely responsible for all acts and omissions of its employees, volunteers and all other such persons acting on its behalf. The County acknowledges that the City shall have no responsibility for overseeing or monitoring the performance of such persons.

 D. To the maximum extent permitted by law, the City agrees to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the County and its officers, employees and agents from and against all liabilities, claims, actions, lawsuits, damages, losses, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and court expenses) for all injuries to or death of any person, repayment of grant funds, infringement of any patent or copyright, and/or damage to any property occurring, directly or indirectly, from the City's performance or failure to perform under this Agreement, whether or not resulting from the negligence of the City, except to the extent such injuries, infringements or damages result from the County's negligence or willful misconduct. If (and only if) the provisions of RCW 4.24.115 apply to the work and services under this Agreement and any such damages and injuries to persons or property are caused by or result from the concurrent negligence of the City and the County or their respective contractor(s), employees, agents, or representatives, the indemnification of each party applies only to the extent of the negligence of that party, its contractor or employees, agents, or representatives. The City's obligations under this Section shall include, but not be limited to, claims and actions against the County and its officers, employees and agents by a volunteer to or an employee or former employee of the City, and the City expressly waives, as respects the County only and only for the limited purpose stated herein, all immunity and limitation on liability under any industrial insurance act, including Title 51 RCW, other workers' compensation act, disability benefit act, or other employee benefit act of any jurisdiction which would otherwise be applicable in the case of such claims and actions.

 E. To the maximum extent permitted by law, the County agrees to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City and its officers, employees and agents from and against all liabilities, claims, actions, lawsuits, damages, losses, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and court expenses) for all injuries to or death of any person, repayment of grant funds, infringement of any patent or copyright, and/or damage to any property occurring, directly or indirectly, from the County's performance or failure to perform under this Agreement, whether or not resulting from the negligence of the County, except to the extent such injuries, infringements or damages result from the City's negligence or willful misconduct. If (and only if) the provisions of RCW 4.24.115 apply to the work and services under this Agreement and any such damages and injuries to persons or property are caused by or result from the concurrent negligence of the City and the County or their respective contractor(s), employees, agents, or representatives, the indemnification of each party applies only to the extent of the negligence of that party, its contractor or employees, agents, or representatives. The County's obligations under this Section shall include, but not be limited to, claims and actions against the City and its officers, employees and agents by a volunteer to or an employee or former employee of the County, and the County expressly waives, as respects the City only and only for the limited purpose stated herein, all immunity and limitation on liability under any industrial insurance act, including Title 51 RCW, other workers' compensation act, disability benefit act, or other employee benefit act of any jurisdiction which would otherwise be applicable in the case of such claims and actions.

 F. The provisions of this Section shall survive and remain applicable to each of the parties notwithstanding any termination or expiration of this Agreement.

 SECTION 7. TERMINATION.

 A. This Agreement shall take effect upon its signing by both parties. Either party may terminate this Agreement in the event the other fails to perform a material obligation under this Agreement, and such failure has not been corrected to the reasonable satisfaction of the other in a timely manner after notice of breach has been provided to such other party. Notice of termination of this Agreement shall be given by the party terminating this Agreement to the other party not less than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of termination. No delay in enforcing the provisions hereof as to any breach shall impair, damage or waive the right of any party entitled to enforce the same or obtain relief against or recover for the continuation or repetition of such breach or any similar breach thereof at any later time or times.

 B. Neither payment by the County nor the City shall be construed as a waiver of each party's rights or remedies against the other. Failure to require full and timely performance of any provision at any time shall not waive or reduce the right to insist upon complete and timely performance of such provision thereafter.

 SECTION 8. RECORD KEEPING

 The City and the County shall keep accurate records of all activities and expenditures conducted and incurred under this Agreement and report progress in achieving the performance measures identified by the parties during the course of this project and for three years thereafter.

 SECTION 9. AUDITS, INSPECTIONS AND RETENTION OF RECORDS

 The County, the City, the State Auditor, and any of their representatives shall have full access to and the right to examine, during normal business hours and as often as they deem necessary, all of the City's and County's records with respect to all matters covered by this Agreement. Such representatives shall be permitted to audit, examine and make excerpts or transcripts from such records, and to make audits of all Agreements, invoices, materials, payrolls, and other matters covered by or related to this Agreement.

 All documents, books, papers, accounting records, and other materials pertaining to this Agreement shall be retained by the City and the County for six years from the date of termination or expiration of this Agreement, except in the event of litigation or settlement of claims arising from the performance of this Agreement, in which case the City and the County agree to maintain same until all such litigation, appeals, claims or exceptions are finally resolved.

 SECTION 11. SUCCESSION.

 This Agreement, together with all exhibits now or hereafter made a part, shall be binding on the parties and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.

 SECTION 12. ASSIGNMENTS.

 Neither this Agreement nor any interest herein may be assigned by the City or the County without the prior written consent of the non- assigning party.

 SECTION 13. NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.

 Any notice given under this Agreement shall be in writing and given by sending such notice by registered mail, return receipt requested, with postage prepaid, addressed as follows, or at such other address as the party to be notified shall have last directed in writing, or by serving said notice personally.

 KING COUNTY: Transit General Manager Department of Transportation - KSC-TR-0415 King Street Center 201 S. Jackson Street Seattle, WA 98104-38565

 CITY: Director Seattle Department of Transportation, SMT-39-00 700 Fifth Ave. Suite 3900 Seattle, WA 98104-5043

 The effective date of notice shall be the date of personal service or the date of receipt as shown on the return receipt, as applicable.

 SECTION 14. AMENDMENT AND EXTENSION.

 This Agreement and the exhibits now or hereafter a part of this Agreement shall not be deemed amended in any manner unless such amendment is in writing and signed by a duly authorized representative of each party.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this Agreement to be executed by a duly authorized representative.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE KING COUNTY ___________________________ __________________________ Greg Nickels Ron Sims Mayor, City of Seattle King County Executive Date: ______________________ Date: ________________________ October 21, 2005 ta

[Exhibit B to Attachment 1 - Bus Layovers and Zones Layout Map](/~ordpics/115406ExBtoAt1.pdf)

```
