

********

**Council Bill Number: 115452**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122002**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to a service center for homeless persons at the Morrison Hotel, located at 501 3rd Avenue; authorizing the Director of the Human Services Department to enter into a sublease to the City of space in the Morrison Hotel with the Downtown Emergency Service Center; providing for the use of the facility for a service center for homeless people therein for a term of 15 years; authorizing the further subleasing of that space to the Downtown Emergency Service Center for operation of the center; authorizing related documents and actions; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 12, 2005
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 15, 2005
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 15, 2005
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Related: Res 30331, 30418, 30746

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 28, 2005
   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services & Health
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** REST-ROOMS, DOWNTOWN, PUBLIC-HEALTH, SOCIAL-SERVICES, HOMELESS, CONTRACTS

**Fiscal Note:**115452

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to a service center for homeless persons at the Morrison Hotel, located at 501 3rd Avenue; authorizing the Director of the Human Services Department to enter into a sublease to the City of space in the Morrison Hotel with the Downtown Emergency Service Center; providing for the use of the facility for a service center for homeless people therein for a term of 15 years; authorizing the further subleasing of that space to the Downtown Emergency Service Center for operation of the center; authorizing related documents and actions; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 WHEREAS, in Resolutions 30331 and 30418, and Statements of Legislative Intent adopted in 2000, 2001 and 2005, the City Council requested that the Executive take concrete steps towards the development of a service center for homeless individuals; and

 WHEREAS, the 2005 adopted budget and 2006 proposed budget include funds for the construction of a City-owned hygiene and homeless service facility in downtown Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council adopted a Statement of Legislative intent directing staff to pursue possible alternative locations to the Mayor's proposed facility, to obtain input from community stakeholders regarding priority populations to be served by such a facility, and to ensure that the key services provided at such a facility be consistent with the Ten Year Plan to End Homelessness; and

 WHEREAS, a request for information on alternative locations/facilities was issued to human services providers; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council received several proposals, including one involving space in the Morrison Hotel that is presently leased by the Downtown Emergency Services Center (DESC) from an affiliated company; and

 WHEREAS, based on input from the community, the City Council has determined that the space in the Morrison Hotel meets the criteria specified to support its use as a homeless service center; and

 WHEREAS, in Resolution 30746, the Seattle City Council requested that the Executive begin negotiating a contract with DESC for the development and operation of a service center for the homeless at the Morrison Hotel; and

 WHEREAS, the Council desires that the City enter into a sublease with DESC, in which the City would be the sublessee of a new homeless service center at a site located at 501 3rd Avenue, which will be completed by DESC as part of its larger Morrison Hotel project, and the City would further sublease the space back to DESC for its operation; and

 WHEREAS, Office of Housing and Human Services Department staff worked collaboratively to prepare the sublease and sub-sublease agreements, and the Human Services Department will separately negotiate an annual service agreement with DESC;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of the Human Services Department ("Director") is authorized to enter into, administer, enforce and perform a sublease with Downtown Emergency Service Center ("DESC") by which the City will be the sublessee of approximately 8,800 square feet of space in the Morrison Hotel building, in which DESC shall complete improvements for a services center for homeless people prior to commencement of the lease term, and a further sublease for the lease of the same space back to DESC for operation of the center, each substantially in the general form and pursuant to the general terms attached as Exhibits A and B to this ordinance, with such revisions, additions, and amendments, if any, as the Director shall deem advisable in order to carry out the intent of this ordinance. The Director is further authorized to execute, deliver, accept, administer, and modify such other documents and take such other actions as may be reasonably necessary in connection with the subleasing of the services center for homeless people as contemplated by this ordinance. The acquisition of the City's subleasehold interest and the further subleasing to DESC shall not be subject to any policies or rules pursuant to SMC 3.18.300.

 Section 2. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is herby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2005, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2005.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibits:

 A. Form of Sublease from DESC to City

 B. Form of Sublease from City to DESC

 version #2a

 EXHIBIT A

 SUBLEASE AGREEMENT

 BETWEEN

 DOWNTOWN EMERGENCY SERVICE CENTER

 AS SUBLANDLORD

 AND

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 AS SUBTENANT

 THIS LEASE AGREEMENT ("Sublease"), dated for reference purposes January 1, 2006, is entered into by and between DOWNTOWN EMERGENCY SERVICE CENTER, a Washington nonprofit corporation ("Sub- Landlord"), and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("Sub-Tenant" or "City"), collectively referred to as the Parties.

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS, On or about September ___, 2003, Sub-Landlord as Lessee and Morrison Hotel LLC ("Master Landlord") as Lessor executed a lease entitled Master Commercial Lease ("Master Lease") pursuant to which Sub-Landlord leased approximately 40,580 square feet of space for a term of twenty years; and

 WHEREAS, City desires to sublease a portion of Sub-Landlord's space, and Sub-Landlord is willing to sublease to City under certain terms and conditions, and subject to Master Landlord's signature on that certain document titled Master Landlord's Consent to Sublease attached to this Sublease as Attachment B.

 Now, therefore, the Parties agree as follows:

 1. Premises. Sub-Landlord hereby leases to the City approximately 8,000 square feet, which is a portion of the leased premises described in the Master Lease. Said 8,000 square feet is located on the basement and first floor of the building described in the Master Lease as 505 Third Avenue in Seattle, King County, Washington, and situated on real property legally described in the Master Lease as:

 Lots 3, 6, and 7, Block 2, Town of Seattle, as laid out in the claims of C. D. Boren and A. A. Denny (commonly known as Boren & Denny's Adto the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 27, in King County, Washington; EXCEPT the easterly 9 feet thereof condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 54135 for the widening of Third Avenue, as provision provided by ordinance 14345 of the City of Seattle;

 Said 8,000 square feet is the Premises and is outlined on the floor plan of the building attached hereto as Attachment A (the "Floor Plan of Premises").

 2. Term. This Sublease shall be for a term beginning on the Commencement Date and ending on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with the terms of this lease. The estimated Commencement Date is March 1, 2006, or such later date as is provided in Section 7, Delivery of Premises. The Expiration Date shall be the last day of the calendar month that is one hundred eighty (180) months after the month in which the Commencement Date occurs.

 3. Rent. In consideration of this Sublease and Sub-Landlord's performance of all covenants and agreements contained herein, the City shall pay to Sub-Landlord the sum of Two Million One Hundred Thousand and no/100 dollars ($2,100,000.), lawful money of the United States (the "Lump Sum Rental"). Said rental shall be paid in a lump sum within 30 days after the Commencement Date, subject to all the terms and conditions of this Sublease.

 4. Use of Premises. The Premises may be used for any municipal purpose consistent with the permitted use of the Master Lease, which specifically includes services for homeless populations.

 5. Utilities and Other Services. Sub-Landlord, at its sole expense, shall provide or shall otherwise pay for, when due, all costs for providing all utilities and other services on or to the Premises including but not limited to water, sewer, power, garbage removal, recycling services, heating and cooling or air conditioning, janitorial, and security.

 6. Maintenance and Repair. The Premises have been inspected by both Parties and are accepted by the City in their existing condition as of the Commencement Date of this Sublease, without reservation except for latent defects or faulty construction of the Premises not discoverable by reasonable inspection at the time of taking possession. Sub-Landlord, at its sole expense, shall perform all major and minor maintenance to the Premises, keeping and preserving the Premises, including Sub-Landlord's Work defined herein, in good repair, including but not limited to all structural and non-structural parts thereof, plumbing, heating, cooling, and electrical, gas and other utility systems, and other equipment and appurtenances of the Premises and the structure of which the Premises form a part.

 7. Delivery of Premises. Sub-Landlord shall deliver the Premises to City with Sub-Landlord's Work substantially completed. Sub- Landlord's Work is the improvements to the Premises allowing for its operation as an emergency services center per plans and specifications prepared by Sub-Landlord and approved by City. Said plans are attached as Attachment A. If Sub-Landlord is unable to deliver possession of the Premises for any reason, including non- completion of Sub-Landlord's Work, the Commencement Date shall be delayed until such time as Landlord can deliver possession. In such case, City shall not be liable for the rental or any other expense related to the Premises until such time as the Sub-Landlord does deliver possession. All Sub-Landlord's Work is the property of Sub-Landlord, and shall be surrendered with the Premises as a part thereof at the expiration of the Term.

 8. Care of Premises. The Premises shall at all times be kept and used in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington and ordinances of The City of Seattle, and in accordance with all duly authorized directions, rules, and regulations of the Health Officer, Fire Marshall or other proper officer of The City of Seattle; and the City will not permit any waste, damage or injury to the Premises, use or permit in said Premises anything that will increase the rate of fire insurance thereon, maintain anything that may be dangerous to life or limb, permit any objectionable noise or odor to escape or to be emitted from said Premises, or permit anything to be done upon said Premises that in any way will tend to create a nuisance. Sub-Landlord acknowledges that City's intended use as a center providing services to homeless populations complies with the requirements of this paragraph.

 9. Access. City shall allow Sub-Landlord free access at all reasonable times to said Premises to inspect, clean, or make repairs, additions or alterations to the Premises or any connected property owned by or under the control of the Sub-Landlord. This provision shall not be construed as a waiver of the City's right of quiet enjoyment. All such work by the Sub-Landlord shall be undertaken in a way so as to minimize interference with the City's use of the Premises.

 10. Damage or Destruction. If the Premises are damaged by fire, earthquake, or other casualty to an extent that the Premises cannot be reasonably used for the permitted use, and in particular as a service center for homeless populations ,then Sub-Landlord shall either timely restore the Premises to the condition in which they existed prior to the casualty, including Sub-Landlord's Work, or terminate this Sublease by giving notice to City of its decision of its election within thirty days of the casualty. If Sub-Landlord elects termination, it shall pay City a prorated share of the Lump Sum Rental within 30 days of the date of the notice of termination determined as (1) the Lump Sum Rental ($2,100,000.) minus (2) the prorated monthly portion of the Lump Sum Rental ($11,666.67) multiplied by the Sublease term (180 months) minus the # of months since Commencement Date. [$2,100,000. - ($11,666.67 X (180 - # of months since Commencement Date] If Sub-Landlord elects to restore the Premises, Sub-Landlord shall prosecute the work of such restoration without unnecessary delay.

 11. Compliance with Law.

 (a) General Requirement. The Sub-Landlord shall perform and comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 (b) Licenses and Similar Authorizations. The Sub-Landlord shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Sublease, all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 (c) Taxes. The Sub-Landlord shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies and assessments on the Premises, including any leasehold excise taxes.

 (d) Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action. The Sub- Landlord will comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle, including but not limited to Chapters 14.04, 14.10, 20.42, and 20.45 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as they may be amended; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 (e) Compliance with Seattle's "Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance" Required: Each party is required to comply with the Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance of The City of Seattle, SMC 14.10, as amended. Conduct made unlawful by that ordinance constitutes a breach of contract. Engaging in an unfair contracting practice may also result in the imposition of a civil fine or forfeiture under the Seattle Criminal Code as well as various civil remedies.

 12. Indemnification. To the extent permitted by law, Sub-Landlord shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless City, its officers, agents, and employees, from all loss, damage, liability or expense (including attorney's fees and other costs incurred in connection with litigation or the defense of claims, whether claims involved litigation) resulting from any actual or alleged injury to any person, or from any actual or alleged loss of or damage to any property, arising out of any operation or occupation of the Premises or caused by or resulting from any act or omission of Sub- Landlord or any licensee, assignee, sublessee, or concessionaire, or of any officer, agent, employee, guest, invitee or visitors of any such person on or about the Premises. The foregoing indemnity is specifically and expressly intended to constitute a waiver of Sub-Landlord's immunity under Washington's Industrial Insurance Act, RCW Title 51, to the extent necessary to provide City with a full and complete indemnity. The obligations of this paragraph shall survive any expiration or termination of this Sublease. Each party shall promptly notify the other of casualties or accidents occurring on or about the Premises. Sublandlord and City acknowledge that the indemnification provision of this Sublease were specifically negotiated and agreed upon by them.

 13. Insurance. City is authorized to secure insurance coverage for the Premises through requirements of its subtenants of the Premises.

 (a) Liability Insurance. Sub-Tenant shall, at its own expense, maintain commercial general liability insurance, with broad form endorsement, in effect with respect to the Premises with minimum limits of $2,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in aggregate for property damage and bodily injury. Morrison Hotel LLC, as Lessor under the Master Lease, and Sub-Landlord shall be named as additional insureds and shall, if requested by Lessor or Sub-Landlord, be furnished with a copy of such policy or policies of insurance, which shall bear an endorsement that the same shall not be cancelled without thirty (30) days prior notice to Lessor and Sub-Landlord. If Sub-Tenant fails to maintain such insurance, Sub-Landlord may do so, and Sub-Tenant shall reimburse Sub-Landlord for the full expense incurred upon demand. Sub-Landlord acknowledges that Sub-Tenant is an extensively self-insured public entity and agrees that Sub-Tenant may substitute its standard self- insurance letter in full satisfaction of the commercial general liability insurance required herein; Sub-Landlord shall secure Lessor's written agreement to same and shall furnish a copy of said agreement to Sub-Tenant.

 (b) Property Insurance. Under the terms of the Master Lease, Morrison Hotel LLC as Lessor shall obtain and keep in force at all times during the term of the Master Lease "special form" insurance covering all risks of physical loss or damage to the building with limits of liability not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the full replacement value thereof. Such insurance shall be broad form and shall include, but shall not be limited to, fire, extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief and storm. Sub-Tenant shall maintain insurance covering its furniture, fixtures, equipment and inventory in any amount equal to the full insurable value thereof, insuring against fire and risk covered by a standard extended coverage endorsement and insurance covering all plate glass and other glass on the premises. Sub-Landlord shall secure Lessor's written agreement to its insurer's waiver of all rights of subrogation in favor of Sub-Tenant and shall furnish a copy of said agreement to Sub-Tenant and Sub-Tenant shall waive its insurers' rights of subrogation in favor of Lessor and Sub-Landlord.

 (c) Applicability. The requirement for the Sub-Tenant to maintain Liability and Property Insurance as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall not apply should Sub-Tenant enter into a sub-sublease agreement with the Sub-Landlord.

 (d) Waiver of Subrogation. Neither party shall be liable to the other party or to any insurance company (by way of subrogation or otherwise) insuring the other party for any loss or damage to any building, structure, or tangible personal property of the other occurring in or about the Premises, even though such loss or damage might have been occasioned by the negligence of such party or any of its agents or employees, if such loss or damage is covered by fire and extended coverage or all risk insurance benefitting the party suffering such loss or damage or was required to be covered by fire and extended coverage or all risk insurance under terms of this agreement.

 14. Signs. The City may place identification signs upon the Premises, subject to the prior approval of the Sub-Landlord, whose approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 15. Alterations, Additions, and Improvements. City shall not make any alteration, addition or improvement to said Premises without first obtaining the written consent of the Sub-Landlord. Sub- Landlord shall pay the cost of all alterations, additions, and improvements initiated for Sub-Landlord's convenience, and save the City free and harmless from damage, loss or expense arising out of said alterations performed by Sub-Landlord or on its behalf.

 16. Default and Remedies

 (a.) Default. If Sub-Landlord (referenced in this section as "DESC") shall violate, breach, or fail to keep or perform any term or condition of this Sublease, or if DESC abandons, vacates, or otherwise removes its operations from the Premises; or if DESC files or is the subject of a petition in bankruptcy, or if a trustee or receiver is appointed for DESC's assets or if DESC makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or if DESC is adjudicated insolvent, or becomes subject to any proceeding under any bankruptcy or insolvency law whether domestic or foreign, or liquidated, voluntarily or otherwise, then DESC shall be deemed in Default.

 (b.) Remedies. If such Default shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice of such failure, then City may, at its option, terminate this Sublease and any other lease between DESC relating to the Premises. In such event, DESC shall repay to City a prorated share of the Lump Sum Rental within 60 days of the date of the notice of termination. The prorated share shall be determined by (1) the Lump Sum Rental ($2,100,000) minus (2) the prorated monthly portion of the Lump Sum Rental ($11,666.67) multiplied by the lease term (180 months) minus the # of months since Commencement Date. [$2,100,000 - ($11,666.67 X (180 - # of months since Commencement Date] City's rights and remedies hereunder are not exclusive, but cumulative, and City's exercise of any right or remedy due to a default or breach by DESC shall not be deemed a waiver of, or alter, affect or prejudice any other right or remedy that City may have under this Lease or by law or in equity.

 (c.) Mediation of Disputes. The Parties shall use their best efforts to resolve disputes as expeditiously as possible through negotiations, and if such negotiations are unsuccessful, to participate in good faith in a mediation process with a mediator agreeable to the parties. DESC and the City shall share equally the cost charged for the mediation of any dispute. If mediation does not resolve the dispute, then the either party may pursue litigation.

 17. Surrender of Premises. Upon the expiration or termination of this Sublease, including any extensions thereof, whichever is earlier, the City shall quit and surrender said Premises and all keys thereto, without notice and in as good condition as received at the commencement of the term hereof except for ordinary wear and tear; damage or destruction by fire or by a circumstance uncontrollable by the City; property damaged, removed, or destroyed by the Sub-Landlord or Master Landlord or either's agents; latent defects or faulty construction of the structure of which the Premises comprise a part; and any alterations, additions or improvements made to the Premises by the City. The parties agree that any damage arising out of the use of the Premises to serve homeless populations, which the parties contemplate will be operated and administered by DESC, is a circumstance uncontrollable by the City for which City will not be liable.

 18. Adjudication. This lease shall be construed under all of the applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the United States of America, the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle. In the case of a dispute between the parties, jurisdiction over such dispute shall be with the Superior Court of King County, Washington.

 19. Notices. All notices to be given by either of the parties hereto to the other party shall be in writing and may either be delivered personally or may be deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, as either certified or regular mail, addressed as specified:

 To the City: Michael Look

 Community Facilities Program Manager

 City of Seattle

 618 2nd Ave

 Seattle, WA 98104

 To DESC: Bill Hobson

 Executive Director

 DESC

 515 Third Ave

 Seattle, WA 98104

 or to such other respective addresses as either party may from time to time designate by notice as provided herein.

 20. Relationship. In no event shall the City be construed or held to have become in any way or for any purpose a partner, associate, or joint venturer of the Lessor or any party associated with the Lessor in the conduct of the Lessor's business or otherwise. This Sublease does not constitute the Sub-Landlord as the agent or legal representative of the City for any purpose whatsoever.

 21. Waiver. No waiver of default by either party of any of the terms, covenants, and conditions hereof to be performed, kept and observed by the other party shall be construed as, or operate as, a waiver of any subsequent default or of any of the terms, covenants, and conditions herein contained, to be performed, kept and observed by the other party.

 22. Binding Effect. This Sublease shall be binding upon the heirs, successors, assigns, and all other parties legally empowered with signatory rights of any or all of the parties hereto.

 23. Application of Master Lease. Except as limited below, City as Sub-Tenant agrees, during the Term of this Sublease only, to perform and be bound by all of the covenants of the Master Lease required to be performed by Sub-Landlord as Lessee under the Master Lease, including the insurance requirements of the Master Lease. Sub-Landlord agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless for any damage or other liability it may suffer arising out of City's obligations under this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City is not bound by the following Sections of the Master Lease: Section 3 Rent; Section 5 Operating Expenses, including but not limited to Landlord's insurance deductibles and premiums, Section 6 Maintenance and Repair, Sections (a),(b), and (d), Section 9, Indemnification and Insurance, Section 11, Fire and Extended Coverage Insurance, and Section 17 Attorney's Fees.

 24. Termination of Master Lease; Security for City. If the Master Lease is terminated for any reason prior to the expiration of the Term of this Sublease, Sub-Landlord shall pay City a prorated share of the Lump Sum Rental within 30 days of the effective date of termination determined as (1) the Lump Sum Rental ($2,100,000) minus (2) the prorated monthly portion of the Lump Sum Rental ($11,666.67) multiplied by the lease term (180 months) minus the # of months since Commencement Date. [$2,100,000 - ($11,666.67 X (180 - # of months since Commencement Date]

 25. Entire Agreement. This Sublease and the attachments attached hereto, and by this reference incorporated herein, set forth the entire agreement of the City and Sub-Landlord concerning the Premises. Any subsequent modification or amendment of this Lease shall be binding upon the Parties only if reduced to writing and signed by them. The following attachments are attached:

 Attachment A Floor Plan of Premises

 Attachment B Master Landlord's Consent to Sublease

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have affixed their signature below:

 Subtenant, THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By__________________________________

 Patricia McInturff, Director

 Human Service Department

 Authorizing Ordinance:__________________

 Sub-Landlord, DOWNTOWN EMERGENCY SERVICE CENTER

 By__________________________________

 (Signature)

 Bill Hobson

 Executive Director

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. Acknowledgment for The City of Seattle

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Patricia McInturff is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that she signed this instrument, on oath stated that she was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the Director of the Human Services Department of THE CITY OF SEATTLE to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: _____________________________

 _____________________________________________

 (Notary Signature)

 _____________________________________________

 (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at Seattle.

 My appointment expires ________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. Acknowledgment for Downtown Emergency

 COUNTY OF KING ) Service Center

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that ________________ is the individual who appeared before me, and said individual acknowledged that (s)he signed this instrument, on oath stated that (s)he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _______________ of the _______________ to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: _____________________________

 ________________________________________________

 (Notary Signature)

 ________________________________________________

 (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at ________________________.

 My appointment expires ___________.

 Attachment A

 Floor Plan of Premises

 (To Be Inserted)

 Attachment B

 MASTER LANDLORD CONSENT TO SUBLEASE

 THIS MASTER LANDLORD CONSENT TO SUBLEASE (Master Landlord's Consent) is entered into by and among MORRISON HOTEL LLC, a Washington limited liability company ("Master Landlord"), DOWNTOWN EMERGENCY SERVICE CENTER, a Washington nonprofit corporation ("DESC"), and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("City").

 WHEREAS, On or about September ___, 2003, Master Tenant as Lessee and Morrison Hotel LLC as Lessor executed a lease entitled Master Commercial Lease ("Master Lease") pursuant to which Sub-Landlord leased approximately 40,580 square feet of space for a term of twenty years; and

 WHEREAS, DESC is the managing member of the MORRISON HOTEL LLC; and

 WHEREAS, DESC and City desire to execute that certain sublease dated for reference purposes January 1, 2006, to which this Master Landlord's Consent is attached as an Attachment (the "Sublease"); and

 WHEREAS, the City's intended use of the space as a service center serving homeless populations is consistent with the mission of MORRISON HOTEL LLC, and as such Master Landlord wants the City to rent space in Master Landlord's building; and

 WHEREAS, the City seeks certain assurances from Master Landlord in order to protect its financial interest in the Premises to be subleased from DESC.

 NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:

 1. Master Landlord's termination restrictions.

 Anything contained in the Master Lease to the contrary notwithstanding, Master Landlord agrees it will not terminate the Master Lease for any reason so long as DESC is a member of the MORRISON HOTEL LLC. If at any time DESC is no longer a member of MORRISON HOTEL LLC, then Master Landlord grants to City a reasonable opportunity to cure any DESC default before it may terminate.

 2. Master Landlord's agreement to honor City's Sublease.

 If Master Landlord terminates the Master Lease with DESC, then it will not disturb the Sublease to the City, and Master Landlord agrees to perform and be bound by all of the covenants of the Sublease required to be performed by DESC.

 3. Terms of Master Lease Applicable to City.

 Anything contained in the Master Lease to the contrary notwithstanding, Master Landlord agrees the City is not bound by the following Sections of the Master Lease: Section 3 Rent; Section 5 Operating Expenses, including but not limited to Landlord's insurance deductibles and premiums, Section 6 Maintenance and Repair, Sections (a),(b), and (d), Section 9, Indemnification and Insurance, Section 11, Fire and Extended Coverage Insurance, and Section 17 Attorney's Fees.

 City agrees to be bound by the remainder of the terms of the Master Lease.

 4. Master Landlord's guarantee of DESC's obligations to City.

 Master Landlord shall act as guarantor of DESC's obligation under the Sublease to reimburse City a prorated share of the lump sum rental under the terms and conditions specified in the Sublease.

 5. Master Landlord's Consent to execution of the Sublease.

 Master Landlord has read the Sublease and hereby consents to its execution.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have affixed their signature below.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By__________________________________

 (Signature)

 Patricia McInturff, Director

 Human Services Department

 Authorizing Ordinance:__________________

 DOWNTOWN EMERGENCY SERVICE CENTER

 By__________________________________

 (Signature)

 Bill Hobson

 Executive Director

 MORRISON HOTEL LLC

 By:_____________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. Acknowledgment for The City of Seattle

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Patricia McInturff is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that she signed this instrument, on oath stated that she was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the Director of the Human Services Department of THE CITY OF SEATTLE to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: _____________________________

 _____________________________________________

 (Notary Signature)

 _____________________________________________

 (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at Seattle.

 My appointment expires ________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. Acknowledgment for Downtown Emergency

 COUNTY OF KING ) Service Center

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that ________________ is the individual who appeared before me, and said individual acknowledged that (s)he signed this instrument, on oath stated that (s)he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _______________ of the _______________ to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: _____________________________

 ________________________________________________

 (Notary Signature)

 ________________________________________________

 (Print Name)

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. Acknowledgment for Morrison Hotel LLC

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that ________________ is the individual who appeared before me, and said individual acknowledged that (s)he signed this instrument, on oath stated that (s)he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _______________ of the _______________ to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: _____________________________

 ________________________________________________

 (Notary Signature)

 ________________________________________________

 (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at ________________________.

 My appointment expires ___________.

 EXHIBIT B

 SUB-SUBLEASE AGREEMENT

 BETWEEN

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 AS SUB-SUBLANDLORD

 AND

 DOWNTOWN EMERGENCY SERVICES CENTER

 AS SUB-SUBTENANT

 THIS LEASE AGREEMENT ("Lease") is entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("Landlord" or "City"), and DOWNTOWN EMERGENCY SERVICE CENTER, a Washington nonprofit corporation ("Tenant" or "DESC"), collectively referred to as the Parties.

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS, On or about September ___, 2003, DESC as Lessee and Morrison Hotel LLC as Lessor executed a lease entitled Master Commercial Lease ("Master Lease") pursuant to which DESC leased approximately 40,580 square feet of space for a term of twenty years; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain sublease dated for reference purposes January 1, 2006, DESC subleased to the City a portion of DESC's space, permitting its use as a service center for homeless populations; and

 WHEREAS, the City desires to lease the space back to DESC for among other terms, its obligation to operate such a service center for homeless populations.

 Now, therefore, the Parties agree as follows:

 1. Premises. The City hereby leases to DESC approximately 8,000 square feet, which is a portion of the leased premises described in the Master Lease. Said 8,000 square feet is located on the basement and first floor of the building ("Building") described in the Master Lease as 505 Third Avenue in Seattle, King County, Washington, and situated on real property legally described in the Master Lease as:

 Lots 3, 6, and 7, Block 2, Town of Seattle, as laid out in the claims of C. D. Boren and A. A. Denny (commonly known as Boren & Denny's Adto the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 27, in King County, Washington; EXCEPT the easterly 9 feet thereof condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 54135 for the widening of Third Avenue, as provision provided by ordinance 14345 of the City of Seattle;

 Said 8,000 square feet is the Premises and is outlined on the floor plan of the building attached hereto as Attachment A (the "Floor Plan of Premises").

 2. Term. This Lease shall be for a term beginning on the Commencement Date and ending on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with the terms of this lease. The Commencement Date shall be the Commencement Date of that certain lease agreement between DESC as Sub-Landlord and the City of Seattle as Sub-Tenant dated for reference purposes January 1, 2006. The Expiration Date shall be the last day of the calendar month that is one hundred eighty (180) months after the month in which the Commencement Date occurs.

 3. Rent. The City has determined that the annual fair market rental for the Premises is $91,350/year based on comparable rents in the area which amount shall represent the annual Base Rent. For use and occupancy of the Premises during the term hereof, DESC shall, in lieu of Base Rent, provide services to and for the benefit of the City targeted for homeless persons.

 At a minimum DESC shall provide direct services to homeless populations for no less than forty hours per week. The value of these services shall be determined by the City to be at least $100,000 per year. The specific services to be provided are subject to the City's prior approval; within 30 days of the Commencement Date and annually thereafter, DESC shall provide the City a report detailing the nature of the services DESC proposes for the upcoming year and the proposed value of such services in such detail as the City may require.

 Within 30 days after each anniversary of the Commencement Date during the term of this Lease, DESC shall provide the City with a written report detailing the actual services provided for the immediately preceding year in a format acceptable to the City.

 The parties agree the value of the services to be provided shall exceed the financial equivalent of the Base Rent, and under no circumstances will the City owe DESC any money or credit for such excess. Failure to provide the services in accordance with the Lease shall be a material breach for which the City may terminate this Lease; and, in such event, unless and until the City chooses termination, DESC shall pay City the Base Rent monthly.

 Whether or not so designated, all sums other than Base Rent due from DESC under this Lease shall constitute Additional Charges, payable as and when specified elsewhere in this Lease or within ten (10) days of demand therefore. DESC shall have no right of offset or deduction whatsoever for Additional Charges.

 4. Use of Premises. The Premises may be used for any municipal purpose consistent with the permitted use of the Master Lease, which specifically includes services for homeless populations. At a minimum DESC shall provide direct, basic, necessary services to homeless populations for no less than forty hours per week.

 5. Utilities and Other Services. DESC, at its sole expense, shall provide or shall otherwise pay for, when due, all costs for providing all utilities and other services on or to the Premises including but not limited to water, sewer, power, garbage removal, recycling services, heating and cooling or air conditioning, janitorial, and security.

 6. Maintenance and Repair. The Premises have been inspected by both Parties and are accepted by DESC in their existing condition as of the Commencement Date of this Lease. DESC, at its sole expense, shall perform all major and minor maintenance to the Premises, keeping and preserving the Premises in good repair, including but not limited to, all structural and non-structural parts thereof, plumbing, heating, cooling, and electrical, gas and other utility systems, and other equipment and appurtenances of the Premises and the structure of which the Premises form a part.

 7. Delivery of Premises. City shall deliver the Premises to DESC as is.

 8. Care of Premises. The Premises shall at all times be kept and used in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington and ordinances of The City of Seattle, and in accordance with all duly authorized directions, rules, and regulations of the Health Officer, Fire Marshall or other proper officer of The City of Seattle; and DESC will not permit any waste, damage or injury to the Premises, use or permit in said Premises anything that will increase the rate of fire insurance thereon, maintain anything that may be dangerous to life or limb, permit any objectionable noise or odor to escape or to be emitted from said Premises, or permit anything to be done upon said Premises that in any way will tend to create a nuisance.

 9. Access. DESC shall allow City free access at all reasonable times to said Premises for purposes of inspection upon reasonable notice, regardless of any obligation to inspect or repair. This provision shall not be construed as a waiver of the DESC's right of quiet enjoyment.

 10. Damage or Destruction. If the Premises are damaged by fire, earthquake, or other casualty to an extent that the Premises cannot be reasonably used for the permitted use, then DESC shall either timely restore the Premises at its sole cost and expense to the condition in which they existed prior to the casualty, including Landlord's Work as the term is used in that lease executed between DESC as Sub-Landlord and City as Sub-Tenant dated for reference purposes January 1, 2006, or terminate this Lease by giving notice to City of its decision of its election within thirty days of the casualty. If DESC elects to restore the Premises, it shall prosecute the work of such restoration without unnecessary delay.

 If DESC elects to restore the Premises, Base Rent (in lieu of Services) shall be abated in the proportion that the untenantable portion of the Premises bears to the whole thereof, as determined by City, for the period from the date of the casualty to the completion of the repairs, unless the casualty results from or is contributed to by the negligence of DESC or any of its officers, contractors, agents, invitees, guests or employees or DESC's breach of this Lease.

 11. Compliance with Law.

 (a) General Requirement. The DESC shall perform and comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 (b) Licenses and Similar Authorizations. DESC shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Lease, all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 (c) Taxes. DESC shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies and assessments on the Premises, including any leasehold excise taxes.

 (d) Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action. DESC will comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle, including but not limited to Chapters 14.04, 14.10, 20.42, and 20.45 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as they may be amended; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 (e) Compliance with Seattle's "Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance" Required: Each party is required to comply with the Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance of The City of Seattle, SMC 14.10, as amended. Conduct made unlawful by that ordinance constitutes a breach of contract. Engaging in an unfair contracting practice may also result in the imposition of a civil fine or forfeiture under the Seattle Criminal Code as well as various civil remedies.

 12. Indemnification. To the extent permitted by law, DESC shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless City, its officers, agents, and employees, from all loss, damage, liability or expense (including attorney's fees and other costs incurred in connection with litigation or the defense of claims, whether claims involved litigation) resulting from any actual or alleged injury to any person, or from any actual or alleged loss of or damage to any property, arising out of any operation or occupation of the Premises or caused by or resulting from any act or omission of DESC or any licensee, assignee, sublessee, or concessionaire, or of any officer, agent, employee, guest, invitee or visitors of any such person on or about the Premises. The obligations of this paragraph shall survive any expiration or termination of this lease. Each party shall promptly notify the other of casualties or accidents occurring on or about the Premises. The foregoing indemnity is specifically and expressly intended to, constitute a waiver of DESC's immunity under Washington's Industrial Insurance Act, RCW Title 51, to the extent necessary to provide City with a full and complete indemnity. City and DESC acknowledge that the indemnification provisions of this lease were specifically negotiated and agreed upon by them.

 Release of Claims. DESC hereby fully and completely waives and releases all claims against City for any losses or other damages sustained by DESC or any person claiming through DESC resulting from any accident or occurrence in or upon or about the Premises, including but not limited to any defect in or failure of Building equipment; any failure to make repairs; any defect, failure, surge in, or interruption of Building facilities or services; broken glass; water leakage; the collapse of any building component; or any act, omission or negligence of co-tenants, licensees or any other persons or occupants of the Building.

 13. Insurance.

 (a) Liability Insurance. Tenant shall, at its own expense, maintain commercial general liability insurance, with broad form endorsement, in effect with respect to the Premises with minimum limits of $2,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in aggregate for property damage and bodily injury. Morrison Hotel LLC, as Lessor under the Master Lease, and the City of Seattle as Landlord shall be named as additional insureds and shall, if requested by Lessor or Landlord, be furnished with a copy of such policy or policies of insurance, which shall bear an endorsement that the same shall not be cancelled without thirty (30) days prior notice to Lessor and Landlord. If Tenant fails to maintain such insurance, Landlord may do so, and Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for the full expense incurred upon demand.

 (b) Property Insurance. Under the terms of the Master Lease, Morrison Hotel LLC as Lessor shall obtain and keep in force at all times during the term of the Master Lease "special form" insurance covering all risks of physical loss or damage to the building with limits of liability not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the full replacement value thereof. Such insurance shall be broad form and shall include, but shall not be limited to, fire, extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief and storm.

 Tenant shall maintain property insurance covering its tenant improvements on an all risks of physical loss or damage basis for the full replacement value thereof, and with a limit of liability of not less than $2,100,000 subject to a deductible of no greater than $2,500. Landlord shall be named as an additional insured and loss payee thereunder subject to a mortgagee clause with a waiver of subrogation. In addition, Tenant shall insure its furniture, fixtures, equipment and inventory in any amount equal to the full insurable value thereof against fire and risk covered by a standard extended coverage endorsement and insurance covering all plate glass and other glass on the premises. Tenant shall waive its insurer's rights of subrogation in favor of Landlord.

 (c) Waiver of Subrogation. Neither party shall be liable to the other party or to any insurance company (by way of subrogation or otherwise) insuring the other party for any loss or damage to any building, structure, or tangible personal property of the other occurring in or about the Premises, even though such loss or damage might have been occasioned by the negligence of such party or any of its agents or employees, if such loss or damage is covered by fire and extended coverage or all risk insurance benefitting the party suffering such loss or damage or was required to be covered by fire and extended coverage or all risk insurance under terms of this agreement.

 14. Intentionally Omitted.

 15. Personal property on Premises. All personal property stored on the Premises shall be so stored at the risk and expense of DESC; Under no circumstances will the City be liable for loss of any items stored on the Premises.

 16. Alterations, Additions, and Improvements. DESC shall not make any alteration, addition or improvement in excess of $10,000 to said Premises without first obtaining the written consent of City. DESC shall pay the cost of all alterations, additions, and improvements initiated for DESC's convenience, and save the City free and harmless from damage, loss or expense arising out of said alterations performed by DESC or on its behalf.

 17. Default and Remedies

 (a.) Default. If DESC shall violate, breach, or fail to keep or perform any term or condition of this Lease, or if DESC abandons, vacates, or otherwise removes its operations from the Premises; or if DESC files or is the subject of a petition in bankruptcy, or if a trustee or receiver is appointed for DESC's assets or if DESC makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or if DESC is adjudicated insolvent, or becomes subject to any proceeding under any bankruptcy or insolvency law whether domestic or foreign, or liquidated, voluntarily or otherwise; then DESC shall be deemed in default ("Default").

 (b.) Remedies. If such Default shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice of such failure, then City may, at its option, terminate this Lease and that certain lease between DESC and City dated for reference purposes January 1, 2006. In such event, DESC shall repay to City a prorated share of the Lump Sum Rental, as defined in the January 1, 2006, lease, within 60 days of the date of the notice of termination. The prorated share shall be (1) the Lump Sum Rental ($2,100,000) minus (2) the prorated monthly portion of the lump sum payment ($11,666.67) multiplied by the lease term (180 months) minus the # of months since Commencement Date. [$2,100,000 - $11,666.67 X (180 - # of months since Commencement Date)] City's rights and remedies hereunder are not exclusive, but cumulative, and City's exercise of any right or remedy due to a default or breach by DESC shall not be deemed a waiver of, or alter, affect or prejudice any other right or remedy that City may have under this Lease or by law or in equity.

 (c.) Termination of underlying sublease. . This Lease shall terminate immediately upon any termination of that certain lease between DESC and the City dated for reference purposes January 1, 2006.

 (d.) Mediation of Disputes. The Parties shall use their best efforts to resolve disputes as expeditiously as possible through negotiations, and if such negotiations are unsuccessful, to participate in good faith in a mediation process with a mediator agreeable to the parties. DESC and the City shall share equally the cost charged for the mediation of any dispute. If mediation does not resolve the dispute, then the either party may pursue litigation.

 18. Surrender of Premises. Upon the expiration or termination of this Lease, including any extensions thereof, whichever is earlier, DESC shall quit and surrender said Premises and all keys thereto, without notice and in as good condition as received at the commencement of the term hereof except for ordinary wear and tear.

 DESC shall take good care of the Premises and, to the extent City may be liable to any party, shall reimburse City for all damage done to the Building or Premises that results from any act or omission of DESC or any of DESC's officers, contractors, agents, invitees, licensees or employees, including, but not limited to, cracking or breaking of glass. If DESC fails to take good care of the Premises, City, at its option, may do so, and in such event, upon receipt of written statements from City, DESC shall promptly pay the entire cost thereof as an Additional Charge. City shall have the right to enter the Premises for such purposes.

 19. Adjudication. This Lease shall be construed under all of the applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the United States of America, the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle. In the case of a dispute between the parties, jurisdiction over such dispute shall be with the Superior Court of King County, Washington.

 20. Notices. All notices to be given by either of the parties hereto to the other party shall be in writing and may either be delivered personally or may be deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, as either certified or regular mail, addressed as specified:

 To the City: Michael Look

 Community Facilities Program Manager

 City of Seattle

 618 2nd Ave

 Seattle, WA 98104

 To DESC: Bill Hobson

 Executive Director

 DESC

 515 Third Ave

 Seattle, WA 98104

 or to such other respective addresses as either party may from time to time designate by notice as provided herein.

 21. Relationship. In no event shall the City be construed or held to have become in any way or for any purpose a partner, associate, or joint venturer of the Lessor or any party associated with the Lessor in the conduct of the Lessor's business or otherwise. This lease does not constitute DESC as the agent or legal representative of the City for any purpose whatsoever.

 22. Waiver. No waiver of default by either party of any of the terms, covenants, and conditions hereof to be performed, kept and observed by the other party shall be construed as, or operated as, a waiver of any subsequent default or of any of the terms, covenants, and conditions herein contained, to be performed, kept and observed by the other party.

 23. Binding Effect. This lease shall be binding upon the heirs, successors, assigns, and all other parties legally empowered with signatory rights of any or all of the parties hereto.

 24. Assignment and Subletting. DESC shall not sublet or encumber the whole or any part of the Premises, nor shall this Lease or any interest thereunder be assignable or transferable by operation of law or by any process or proceeding of any court or otherwise without the prior written consent of City. The granting of consent to a given transfer shall not constitute a waiver of the consent requirement as to future transfers. In lieu of giving its consent, Landlord shall have the right to terminate the Lease as to the portion of the Premises affected by the action for which City's consent is requested and recover possession thereof from DESC within twenty (20) days following written notice thereof to DESC. Any assignment or sublease, without City's prior written consent, at City's option, shall be void. Each assignment and sublease shall be by an instrument in writing in form satisfactory to City. Any transfer of this Lease by merger, consolidation or liquidation, or any direct or indirect change, in the ownership of, or power to vote the majority of, DESC's outstanding voting stock, shall constitute an assignment for the purposes of this Lease.

 25. Hazardous Substances. DESC shall not, without City's prior written consent, keep on or about the Premises any substance designated as, or containing any component now or hereafter designated as hazardous, dangerous, toxic or harmful and/or subject to regulation under any federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance ("Hazardous Substances"), except customary office supplies in normal quantities handled in compliance with applicable laws. DESC shall be fully and completely liable for any and all cleanup costs and expenses and any and all other charges, expenses, fees, fines, penalties (both, civil and criminal) and costs imposed with respect to DESC's use, disposal, transportation, generation and/or sale of Hazardous Substances in or about the Premises. DESC shall indemnify, defend and hold City harmless from any and all of the costs, fees, penalties, charges and expenses assessed against, or imposed, upon City (as well as City's attorneys' fees and costs) as a result of DESC's use, disposal, transportation, generation and/or sale of Hazardous Substances.

 26. Entire Agreement. This Lease and the Attachments attached hereto, and by this reference incorporated herein, set forth the entire agreement of the City and Sub-Landlord concerning the Premises.

 The following Attachments are attached:

 Attachment A-Floor Plan of Premises

 Any subsequent modification or amendment of this Lease shall be binding upon the Parties only if reduced to writing and signed by them.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have affixed their signature below:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By__________________________________

 Patricia McInturff, Director

 Human Service Department

 Authorizing Ordinance:__________________

 DOWNTOWN EMERGENCY SERVICE CENTER

 By__________________________________

 (Signature)

 Bill Hobson

 Executive Director

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. Acknowledgment for The City of Seattle

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _____________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that she signed this instrument, on oath stated that she/he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the ______________ of the ____________________ Department of THE CITY OF SEATTLE to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: _____________________________

 _____________________________________________

 (Notary Signature)

 _____________________________________________

 (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at Seattle.

 My appointment expires ________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. Acknowledgment for Downtown Emergency

 COUNTY OF KING ) Service Center

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that ________________ is the individual who appeared before me, and said individual acknowledged that (s)he signed this instrument, on oath stated that (s)he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _______________ of the _______________ to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: _____________________________

 ________________________________________________

 (Notary Signature)

 ________________________________________________

 (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at ________________________.

 My appointment expires ___________.

 Attachment A

 ..TX:

```
