

********

**Council Bill Number: 115488**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122037**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the acceptance of a storm drain and easement for the same within the property at 705 South Weller Street, Seattle.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 13, 2006
   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: Conlin, Della, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 22, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 17, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 13, 2006
   
**Committee:** Environment, Emergency Management and Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERNATIONAL-DISTRICT, EASEMENTS, STORM-SEWERS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the acceptance of a storm drain and easement for the same within the property at 705 South Weller Street, Seattle.

 WHEREAS, ARDA, L.L.C. has made application with the Seattle Department of Planning and Development (DPD) to develop private property located at 705 South Weller Street, Seattle (DPD Permit Application No. 2404071, Permit No. 750234); and

 WHEREAS, DPD, and Seattle Public Utilities requires a storm drain facility to be integrated within and into the improvement planned for the site; and

 WHEREAS, ARDA, L.L.C. has agreed to design and construct such storm drain facility in accordance with City standards for City ownership, and to grant to the City an easement for such facilities; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his designee, is hereby authorized to accept after construction, for and on behalf of The City, the following described private storm drain, catch basin and easement for such facilities, in accordance with the terms and provisions of the transfer of ownership declaration and easement agreement attached hereto as Attachments A and B and incorporated by reference, the following described private storm drain:

 Storm drain pipeline and appurtenant catch basin drainage facility located within:

 The south 10 feet of the north 28 feet of the west 80 feet of Lot 2, Block 53, Town of Seattle, as laid out by D.S. Maynard (Commonly know as D.S. Maynard's Plat of Seattle), according to plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 23, records of King County, Washington, in King County, Washington.

 Section 2. After acceptance, the privately constructed storm drainage system and the real property interest conveyed by such documents shall be placed under the jurisdiction of Seattle Public Utilities.

 Section 3. Any action taken pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ______ day of _______________________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ______ day of ________________________, 2006.

 _________________________________________________

 President ___________________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ________ day of ____________________, 2006

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment A: Transfer of Ownership Declaration

 Attachment B: Easement for Storm Drainage Pipeline and Appurtenances

 S. Dewayne Ticeson/FEM

 SPU Weller Street Easement ORD

 December 28, 2005

 version #2

 1

 ATTACHMENT A

 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP DECLARATION

 ARDA, L.L.C., the undersigned, sells, transfers and sets over to the City of Seattle the following described property:

 All that certain six-inch (6") diameter Class 53 ductile iron storm drain pipe (approximately eighty-five feet), together with all appurtenances belonging thereto, situated within easement area described as follows: The south 10 feet of the north 28 feet of the west 80 feet of Lot 2, Block 53, Town of Seattle, as laid out by D.S. Maynard (Commonly know as D.S. Maynard's Plat of Seattle), according to plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 23, records of King County, Washington, in King County, Washington.

 I warrant that (a) I am the _____________________________________ of ARDA, L,L.C., which is the legal owner of the storm drain pipe to be transferred hereunder, (b) I have the full right and authority to sell and transfer the same and (c) there are no liens or encumbrances on or to the above-described storm drain pipe.

 ARDA, L.L.C.

 Date _______________ __________________________________________ ______________

 Name Title

 STATE OF ______________________)

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF ______________________)

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that __________________________________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledge that they signed this instrument, on oath stated that they were authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the ____________________________________________of ARDA, L.L.C., to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated_______________________

 _______ _________________________________

 NAME (Print) ____________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of

 ________________________________________

 My appointment expires ___________________

 (SEAL)

 Attachment A to SPU Weller Street Easement Ord.

 ATTACHMENT B

 Recording Requested By and

 When Recorded Mail to:

 Seattle Public Utilities

 Real Property Services

 Post Office Box 34018

 Seattle, WA 98124

 EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 Reference Nos. of Document Released: none

 Grantor: ARDA, L.L.C.

 Grantee: City of Seattle

 Legal Description (abbreviated): Portion of Lot 2, Block 53, Town of Seattle, as laid out by D.S. Maynard (commonly known as D.S. Maynard's Plat of Seattle)

 Assessor's Tax Parcel ID No. portion of 524780-2570-02

 The Easement Agreement is made this ____ day of _________________, 20___ by and between the ARDA, L.L.C., a limited liability corporation of the State of Washington, ("Grantor") and The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and through Seattle Public Utilities ("Grantee").

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS, Grantor has made application with the Seattle Department of Planning and Development ("DPD") to develop private property located at 705 South Weller Street, Seattle (DPD Permit Application No. 2404071, Permit No. 750234); and

 WHEREAS, DPD requires a storm drain facility to be integrated within and into the improvements planned for the site; and

 WHEREAS, Grantor agrees to construct the storm drain facility within the area described in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein, and to transfer ownership of the storm drain facility to Grantee upon its completion via a Transfer of Ownership Declaration, attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein; and

 WHEREAS, Grantee agrees to own, operate and maintain the storm drain facility;

 Now, therefore, the parties agree as follows:

 EASEMENT

 Grantor, for and in consideration of the sum of TEN DOLLARS ($10.00) and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, and the covenants and promises hereinafter set forth, hereby conveys and grants to Grantee a non-exclusive easement for a public storm drain facility and all necessary appurtenances (the "Grantee's Facilities") over, under, through, across and upon the real property in Seattle, King County, Washington legally described in Exhibit A (the "Easement Area") and access thereto across certain real property of Grantor legally described in Exhibit C attached and incorporated herein (the "Property"). Grantor and Grantee acknowledge that (a) Grantee's Facilities are intended to be located, in part, along the subterranean southerly interior wall of Grantor's private improvement structure (the "Grantor's Facility") shown on plan drawings for DPD Building Permit Application No. 2404071, Permit No. 750234 ("Grantor's Construction Plans"), and (b) agree that the Easement Area includes without limitation, the basement portion of Grantor's Facility, as depicted on Grantor's Construction Plans.

 This Easement Agreement shall include such rights in the Easement Area and Property as shall be reasonably necessary for the inspection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, operation, improvement, maintenance, repair and replacement of, and additions to, Grantee's Facilities, and access thereto (the "Purposes"), consistent with the terms and conditions of this Easement Agreement. Grantor, its successors, assigns, lessees, sub-lessees, tenants, and sub-tenants, shall have the right to use the Easement Area in any way and for any legal purpose consistent with the rights herein granted to Grantee, and the terms and conditions of this Easement Agreement.

 A. Grantee's Uses

 As used in this section A, "Grantee" shall include Grantee's employees, contractors, and consultants.

 1. Grantee's Access. Grantee shall have access to the Easement Area across, over, and through the Property and Grantor's Facility, for the Purposes described herein, as follows:

 (a) For any Purpose that involves the operation, routine maintenance, or inspection of Grantee's Facilities, Grantee shall notify Grantor at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to entry, except as provided in Section A.1.(c).

 (b) For any Purpose that involves reconstruction alteration improvement, repair or replacement of, and additions to, Grantees' Facilities, Grantee shall submit its work plan to Grantor for authorization no less than ninety (30) days prior to the requested work commencement date, except as provided in Section A.1.(c). Grantor shall provide said authorization, including restrictions and conditions reasonably appropriate to protect Grantor's Facility and operations as deemed by Grantee to be consistent with prudent management of the Grantee's Facilities, or a written objection specifying the grounds therefor, within thirty (30) days of submittal of Grantee's work plan. Grantor's authorization shall not be unreasonably denied.

 (c) In the event that Grantee determines that there has or may have occurred damage to or destruction of the Grantee's Facilities requiring immediate access across or over the Property, or through Grantor's Facility, (an "Emergency"), Grantee may, without prior notice to or approval of Grantor, so access Grantee's Facilities and take any other action (including without limitation construction work) as Grantee determines is reasonable under the circumstances to protect the public's health, safety and welfare. In such event, Grantee shall notify Grantor as soon as feasible. Grantee and Grantor shall cooperate with requests of Grantee in Emergency situations. Notice of Emergency access and other Emergency notices concerning the operation of the Grantee's Facilities shall be made to the following representatives:

 ARDA, L.L.C.

 Attention: Ronald K. or Diane M. King

 1859 - 40th Avenue East

 Seattle, WA 98112

 Cell phone: 206 390-2946

 Home phone: 206 325-8292

 Grantor shall provide current contact information at all times so that Grantee may effect its entry into Grantor's Facility. Grantor may change its contact, address, or telephone number by written notice to the Grantee at:

 Seattle Public Utilities

 Attention: Real Property Services

 PO Box 34018

 Seattle, WA 98124-4018

 Phone: 206-684-5850

 2 Grantee's Facilities. Without limiting the generality of the Purpose, Grantee, at its own expense, shall have the right to replace any of Grantee's Facilities within the Easement Area with storm drain facilities of the same or larger diameter and capacity within the Easement Area, in accordance with Section A.1.

 3. Disruption of Grantor's and Grantee's Facilities.

 (a) Protection. Grantee and Grantor shall cooperate to minimize impacts to the other party's facilities and on current or future uses in the Easement Area. Grantee and Grantor shall cooperate with the goal of finding methods of conducting Grantee's work in the Easement Area that minimize impacts on Grantor's Facility and on Grantee's Facilities.

 (b) Emergency Response. If an Emergency occurs, Grantee shall make reasonable efforts under the circumstances to respond as soon as practicable to the site to protect public health, safety and welfare. Immediately upon request, Grantor shall cooperate with reasonable requests of Grantee in an Emergency.

 (c) Inspection of Grantee's Facilities. Following completion of Grantor's Facility and at Grantor's request and expense, Grantee shall schedule and conduct inspections of Grantee's Facilities in the Easement Area using an inspection method which does not require excavation or removal of Grantor's Facilities.

 B. Grantor's Activities in Easement Area

 1. Grantor's inspection of Easement Area. Grantor shall make a good faith effort to notify Grantee if Grantor observes or receives notice of a maintenance concern with respect to Grantee's Facilities, including but not limited to, noticeable surface settlement, sudden changes in service, pipe breaks or severe leaks, so that Grantee can determine if it needs to take any action to protect Grantee's Facilities. Grantor personnel shall not operate the Grantee's Facilities. In the event of an Emergency, Grantor shall contact the Seattle Public Utilities Operations Response Center at (206) 386-1800 unless Grantee notifies Grantor of another method of contact.

 2. Improvements. No permanent structures shall be constructed or permitted to remain within the boundaries of the Easement Area without prior written permission of the Director of Seattle Public Utilities or any other officer or board who may hereafter succeed to the jurisdiction and powers in respect to said easement now possessed by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, except as follows:

 (a) Grantee has reviewed the construction plans and specifications contained in Grantor's Construction Plans for Grantor's Facilities and herein approves of it. Grantor shall not make any material changes to the Construction Plans without the prior written approval of Grantee, which shall be granted if Grantee determines that its rights under this Easement Agreement are maintained and that the proposed change has no negative impact on Grantee's Facilities.

 (b) Grantor shall request Grantee's approval for future Grantor construction within the Easement Area by submitting work plans to Grantee no less than ninety (90) days prior to the commencement of the proposed work. Grantee shall provide said approval, including such restrictions and conditions as reasonably appropriate to protect Grantee's Facilities and operations, or a written objection specifying the grounds therefor, within sixty (60) days of submittal of Grantor's work plans. Grantee's authorization shall not be unreasonably denied.

 3. Excavation. Grantor shall not, and shall not permit its employees, agents, tenants, licensees or invitees to make any excavation, boring, or tunneling within five (5) feet of the exterior of any of Grantee's Facilities without the prior written permission of Grantee.

 4. Relocation of Grantee's Facilities by Grantor. Subsequent to the construction and installation of Grantor's Facilities, Grantor may, in writing, request the Grantee to approve the relocation of any of Grantee's Facilities and Easement Area, in accordance with the follows:

 (a) All such relocated Grantee Facilities shall meet all then-current Grantee standards and requirements at a minimum, including but not limited to easement width requirements. All such relocated Grantee Facilities shall be at the center line of the applicable relocated easement area. Grantor, at its expense, will survey the as-built relocated Grantee Facilities and will record an amendment to this Easement Agreement to reflect the applicable relocated easement area or position of the relocated facilities.

 (b) Following Grantor's submittal of design drawings for such relocated facilities and the proposed easement area to Grantee, Grantee shall have ninety (90) days to give its approval, which shall not unreasonably be denied. Grantor shall be responsible for accomplishing and shall pay for, all work involved in the relocation, including without limitation, design of relocated facilities, construction, inspection, real estate acquisition and project administration. Grantee shall be responsible for design approval and construction inspection. The relocation work shall not be deemed complete until final inspection and approval by Grantee. Grantor shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of invoice from Grantee, reimburse Grantee for all reasonable costs that it incurs with respect to the relocation, including without limitation administrative costs, except that Grantee shall bear the costs of Betterment to Grantee's Facilities. "Betterment" shall mean improvements or additions that increase the size or operating capacity of Grantee's Facilities beyond their existing level, but shall exclude improvements that are consistent with then-current and applicable industry standards or are required by then-current and applicable governmental regulations.

 C. Indemnification

 1. To the extent permitted by law, the Grantor and Grantee shall protect, defend, indemnify, and save harmless the other party, and its officers, officials, employees, and agents from any and all costs, claims, demands, judgments, damages, or liability of any kind including injuries to persons or damages to property, to the extend caused by the (which arise out of, or in any way result from, or are connected to, or are due to any) negligent acts, omissions or willful misconduct of the indemnifying party; provided that if a court of competent jurisdiction, all appeals having been heard or appeals periods having run, determines that the indemnity provided by either party unlawful or otherwise ineffective, the other party shall have no further indemnity obligations hereunder (but excluding any acts, omissions or willful misconduct arising from or in connection with an Environmental Condition, as hereinafter defined). (No Party shall be required to indemnify, defend, or save harmless the other party if the claim, suit, or action for injuries, death, or damages is caused by the sole negligence of the party seeking indemnification. Where such claims, suits, or actions result from concurrent negligence of the parties, the indemnity provisions provided herein shall be valid and enforceable only to the extent of the indemnifying party's own negligence.) Each party agrees that its obligations under the Section D extend to any claim, demand, or cause of action brought by, or on behalf of, any of its employees or agents. For this purpose, each party, by mutual negotiation, hereby waives, with respect to the other party only, any immunity that would otherwise be available against such claims under the industrial insurance provisions of Title 51 RCW. In the event of any claims, demands, actions or lawsuits, the indemnifying party upon prompt notice from the other party shall assume all costs of defense thereof, including legal fees incurred by the other party, and of all resulting judgments that may be obtained against the other party. In the event that any party incurs attorney fees, costs or other legal expenses to enforce the provisions of this section, all such fees, costs and expenses shall be recoverable by the prevailing party at the rates applicable if such enforcement were conducted by in-house attorneys that are employees of the prevailing party.

 2. An "Environmental Condition" shall mean (1) the existence or discovery of any hazardous substance, pollution or contamination within, or under the Easement Area, or the migration of any hazardous substance, pollution, or contamination from the Easement Area into the surrounding property; or (2) violation of any local, state, federal environmental law or regulation providing for the regulation of hazardous substances of contamination.

 D. Compliance with Laws

 The Grantee and the Grantor in the exercise of their respective rights under this Easement Agreement shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances, and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations.

 E. Runs with Land

 This Easement Agreement and each of the terms, provisions, conditions and covenants herein shall run with the land and be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, successors and assigns.

 F. Dispute Resolution

 The parties shall negotiate in good faith and use their reasonable best efforts to resolve any disputes that may develop under this Easement Agreement. Only upon failure to resolve the dispute through such negotiations may either party pursue legal action. The prevailing party in any such action shall be entitled to its reasonable costs and expenses, including the cost of in-house attorneys and paralegals whether in-house or outside legal assistance is used.

 G. Notices

 Except as otherwise provided in Section A.1.(c) and B.1, notices to Grantor and Grantee shall be made as follows:

 Grantor: ARDA, L.L.C.

 Attention: Ronald K. or Diane M. King

 1859 - 40th Avenue East

 Seattle, WA 98112

 Grantee: Seattle Public Utilities

 Real Property Services

 Post Office Box 34018

 Seattle, WA 98124

 Either party may change its contact, address or phone number by written notice to the other party.

 H. Miscellaneous

 This Easement Agreement and each of the terms, provisions, conditions and covenants herein have been explicitly negotiated between the parties and the language in all parts of this Easement Agreement shall, in all cases, be construed according to its fair meaning and not strictly for or against either party. All titles and section headings are for convenience only and shall not be used to resolve disagreements over interpretation. All recitals and exhibits are by this reference made a part of this Easement Agreement.

 ARDA, L.L.C.

 By: _________________________________ Date _______________________

 Its ___________________________________

 Title

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITIES

 By _____________________________________ Date ________________________

 Chuck Clarke, Director, Seattle Public Utilities

 STATE OF __________________)

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF __________________)

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _________________________________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said persons acknowledge that they signed this instrument, on oath stated that they were authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the ___________________________________________ of ARDA, L.L.C., to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated_______________________

 _________________________________________

 NAME (Print) _____________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of

 _________________________________________

 My appointment expires _____________________

 (SEAL)

 STATE OF _______________________ )

 ) SS.

 COUNTY OF _____________________ )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that ____________________________________ is the person who appeared before me and signed this instrument, on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as __________________________________ of Seattle Public Utilities of the City of Seattle, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated ________________________

 _________________________________________

 NAME (Print) _____________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of

 _________________________________________

 My appointment expires _____________________

 (SEAL)

 1

 Attachment B to SPU Weller Street Easement Ord.

```
