

********

**Council Bill Number: 115545**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122106**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting deeds for street and/or alley purposes establishing, laying off, and widening portions of the following rights-of-way: N.E. 90th Street; N.E. 91st Street; the alley in Block 60, H.W. Treat's 1st Addition to the City of Ballard, Wash.; the alley in Block 15, Nagle's addition to the City of Seattle; 9th Avenue N.E; the alley in Block 8, Fairview Homestead Addition for the Benefit of Mechanics and Laborers; the alley in Block 4, Replat of Blocks C & D, Hamblet's Acre Gardens (two parcels); the alley in Block 3, Scenic Park Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Longfellow Addition to the City of Seattle; Lindsay Place South; 46th Avenue South; South Charlestown Street; Court Place; the alley in Block 41, West Green Lake Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 26, Bell and Denny's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 3, Elbert Place Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 6 Pettit's Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 9, Plat of Columbia; Dayton Avenue North; North 85th Street; the alley in Block 12, North Park Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 6, Hillman's Lakefront Addition to the City of Seattle; accepting various easements for sidewalk purposes and placing the real property conveyed by such deeds and easements under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 15, 2006
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Licata, Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 22, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 22, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 17, 2006
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** RIGHT-OF-WAY, STREETS, ALLEYS, SIDEWALKS, DEEDS, EASEMENTS

**Fiscal Note:**115545

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE accepting deeds for street and/or alley purposes establishing, laying off, and widening portions of the following rights-of-way: N.E. 90th Street; N.E. 91st Street; the alley in Block 60, H.W. Treat's 1st Addition to the City of Ballard, Wash.; the alley in Block 15, Nagle's addition to the City of Seattle; 9th Avenue N.E; the alley in Block 8, Fairview Homestead Addition for the Benefit of Mechanics and Laborers; the alley in Block 4, Replat of Blocks C & D, Hamblet's Acre Gardens (two parcels); the alley in Block 3, Scenic Park Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Longfellow Addition to the City of Seattle; Lindsay Place South; 46th Avenue South; South Charlestown Street; Court Place; the alley in Block 41, West Green Lake Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 26, Bell and Denny's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 3, Elbert Place Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 6 Pettit's Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 9, Plat of Columbia; Dayton Avenue North; North 85th Street; the alley in Block 12, North Park Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 6, Hillman's Lakefront Addition to the City of Seattle; accepting various easements for sidewalk purposes and placing the real property conveyed by such deeds and easements under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle Land Use Code (Chapter 23.53 of the Seattle Municipal Code) requires that street/alleys and sidewalks adjacent and leading to lots being created, developed, or redeveloped, be improved or brought up to the minimum conditions specified in the Land Use Code and the Seattle Right-of-Way Improvements Manual; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Department of Transportation obtained, on behalf of the City, the necessary rights-of-way from specific property owners listed herein for and in fulfillment of said Land Use Code requirement; and

 WHEREAS, the power to grant the authority to a designated City official to accept any real property rights on behalf of the City, is vested in the City Council; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. That the deed for street purposes dated January 25, 2005, by THE

 STRATFORD AT MAPLE LEAF LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, conveying to

 The City of Seattle for street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King

 County, Washington:

 The North 6.00 feet of Lot 1 and the South 6.00 feet of Lot 11, Block 5, Thumm & Moore subdivision of Blocks 39 & 42 of Maple Leaf Addition to Green Lake Circle to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 5 of Plats, page 13, Records of King County, Washington,

 Together with the North 6.00 feet and the South 6.00 feet of the East half of vacated 21st Avenue NE adjoining on the West, which attached thereto by operation of law;

 Except that portion thereof condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 137563 for Victory Way (now known as Lake City Way NE).

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-01; a portion of tax parcel numbers 864150-0385 and 864150- 0390;

 King County Recording Number 20050317001638)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 2. That NE 90th Street and NE 91st Street is hereby laid off, opened, widened,

 extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 1 hereof.

 Section 3. That the deed for alley purposes dated September 30, 2005, by 56th STREET,

 LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley

 purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The South 4.00 feet of Lots 8 & 9, Block 60, H.W. Treat's 1st Addition to the City of Ballard, Wash., according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 13 of Plats, page 5, Records of King County, Washington, situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-49; a portion of tax parcel numbers 867340-0170 and 867340- 0175;

 King County Recording Number 20051021001590)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 4. That the alley which runs in an east-west direction in Block 60, H.W. Treat's

 1st Addition to the City of Ballard, Wash., and said block being bounded on the east by 26th

 Avenue NW, on the west by 28th Avenue NW, on the north by NW 56th Street and on the south

 by NW Market Street is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the

 portion of land described in Section 3 hereof.

 Section 5. That the deed for alley purposes dated November 2, 2005 by BROADWAY

& PINE APARTMENTS LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, conveying to The

 City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County,

 Washington:

 The West 2.00 feet of Lots 7 & 8, Block 15, of addition to the City of Seattle, as laid off by D.T. Denny, Guardian of the Estate of J.H. Nagle (commonly known as Nagle's addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 153, Records of King County, Washington;

 Except the West 8 feet thereof condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 72648 for alley purposes, as provided by Ordinance Number 22905,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-50; a portion of tax parcel numbers 600300-0495 and 600300- 0486;

 King County Recording Number 20051115000077)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 6. That the alley which runs in a north-south direction in Block 15, of addition

 to the City of Seattle, as laid off by D.T. Denny, Guardian of the Estate of J.H. Nagle

 (commonly known as Nagle's addition to the City of Seattle), and said block being bounded on

 the north by East Pine Street, on the south by East Pike Street, on the west by Harvard Avenue

 East and on the east by Broadway East is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and

 established upon the portion of land described in Section 5 hereof.

 Section 7. That the deed for street purposes dated October 18, 2005, by HOWLAND

 HOMES, LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, conveying to The City of Seattle for

 street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The Easterly 5.00 feet of the Northerly 50.00 feet of the following described property:

 The South 90 feet of the North 520 feet of the West 1/2 of the East 1/2 of the Northwest 1/4 of the Southeast 1/4 of Section 29, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M.;

 Except the West 30 feet for road purposes,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-51; a portion of tax parcel number 292604-9202; King County Recording Number 20051018001371)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 8. That 9th Avenue NE is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and

 established upon the portion of land described in Section 7 hereof.

 Section 9. That the deed for alley purposes dated May 11, 2005, by LAKE UNION

 CASCADE APARTMENTS, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company, conveying to The

 City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County,

 Washington:

 The West 2.00 feet of the following described property:

 Lots 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12, Block 8, of Fairview Homestead Association for the

 Benefit of Mechanics and Laborers, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 119, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-23; a portion of tax parcel numbers 246740-0240-04, 246740- 0245-09, and 246740-0265-04; King County Recording Number 20050516001488)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 10. That the alley which runs in a north-south direction in Block 8, of Fairview Homestead Association for the Benefit of Mechanics and Laborers, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 119, Records of King County, Washington; and said block being bounded on the north by Mercer Street, on the south by Republican Street, on the west by Minor Avenue North and on the east by Pontius Avenue North is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 9 hereof.

 Section 11. That the easement for public sidewalk purposes dated May 11, 2005, by

 LAKE UNION CASCADE APARTMENTS, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company,

 conveying to The City of Seattle an easement for sidewalk purposes the following described

 real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The South 3.00 Feet of Lot 7, Block 8, Fairview Homestead Association for the Benefit of Mechanics and Laborers, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 119, Records of King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT the West 2.00 feet thereof;

 TOGETHER WITH the East 0.50 Feet of Lots 7 through 12, inclusive, of said Block 8;

 EXCEPT the South 3.00 Feet of said East 0.50 feet.

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-24; a portion of tax parcel numbers 246740-0240-04, 246740- 0245-09, and 246740-0265-04; King County Recording Number 20050516001489)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such easement is placed under the

 jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 12. That the sidewalk adjoining portions of Lots 7 through 12, Block 8, of Fairview Homestead Association for the Benefit of Mechanics and Laborers, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 119, Records of King County, Washington; in the vicinity of Republican Street and Pontius Avenue North is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 11 hereof.

 Section 13. That the deed for alley purposes dated June 8, 2005, by Andrew Austin

 Company, Inc., a Washington corporation conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes

 the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The east 1.00 foot of Lots 15 and 16, Block 4, Replat of Blocks C & D, Hamblet's Acre Gardens, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats, page 23, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-25; a portion of tax parcel number 305270-0655; King County Recording Number 20050909000405)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 14. That the alley which runs in a north-south direction in Block 4, Replat of

 Blocks C & D, Hamblet's Acre Gardens, and said block being bounded on the north by NW 70th

 Street, on the south by NW 67th Street, on the west by 14th Avenue NW, and on the east by

 13th Avenue NW is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion

 of land described in Section 13 hereof.

 Section 15. That the deed for alley purposes dated July 11, 2005, by Huling Bros.

 Properties, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for

 alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The west 2.00 feet of Lots 23, 24, 25, and 26, Block 3, Scenic Park Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 15 of Plats, page 34, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-32; a portion of tax parcel numbers 757920-0375 and 757920- 0385; King County Recording Number 20050802000253)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 16. That the alley which runs in a north-south direction in Block 3, Scenic Park

 Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the north by SW Alaska Street,

 on the south by SW Edmunds Street, on the west by 41st Avenue SW, and on the east by 40th

 Avenue SW is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of

 land described in Section 15 hereof.

 Section 17. That the deed for alley purposes dated July 27, 2005, by MZ

 CONSTRUCTION, LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, conveying to The City of

 Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County,

 Washington:

 The north 1.00 foot of Lot 11, Longfellow Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 12 of Plats, page 87, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-36; a portion of tax parcel number 440020-0055-08; King County Recording Number 20050802001607)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 18. That the alley which runs in a east-west direction in Longfellow Addition to the City of Seattle, and said plat located within East Mercer Street to the north, East Republican

 Street to the south, 19th Avenue East to the west, and 20th Avenue East to the east, is hereby laid

 off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 17

 hereof.

 Section 19. That the deed for street purposes dated September 19, 2005, by Greenwater

 Partnership, a Washington Limited Partnership, conveying to The City of Seattle for street

 purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 That portion of Lindsay Place South abutting Tract 33, First Addition to Rainier Beach, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats, page 89, Records of King County, Washington, vacated pursuant to King County Superior Court Cause No. 91-2-12249-1, and portion of said Tract 33, described as follows:

 Commencing at the intersection of Renton Avenue South and Lindsay Place South; thence N 00 degrees 13'55" E, along the monument line of Lindsay Place South, 158.92 feet to the southwest corner of said vacated portion of Lindsay Place South and the True point of beginning; thence, continuing N 00 degrees 13'55" E, along the west margin of said vacated portion of Lindsay Place South, a distance of 66.49 feet; thence, S 89 degrees 46'05" E, a distance of 12.58 feet; thence, S 58 degrees 23'06" E, a distance of 38.42 feet, thence S19 degrees 43'31" E, a distance of 34.00 feet; thence S 68 degrees 17'40" W, a distance of 38.99 feet to the southwest corner of said Tract 33; thence, N 89 degrees 38'35" W, a distance of 20.82 feet to the true point of beginning,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-43; a portion of tax parcel number 712980-0050; King County Recording Number 20050920000412)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 20. That Lindsay Place South is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and

 established upon the portion of land described in Section 19 hereof.

 Section 21. That the deed for street purposes dated September 16, 2005, by Mark Knoll

 and Nancy Knoll, husband and wife, conveying to The City of Seattle for street purposes the

 following described property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The East 3 feet of the following described property:

 The North 2/3 of Lot 1, Block 1, Dunlap's 1/2 Acre Tracts, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 11 of Plats, page 78, Records of King County, Washington,

 Except the North 20 feet condemned for street, as provided by Ordinance No. 30673 of the City of Seattle,

 Except the South 50 feet thereof.

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-45; a portion of tax parcel number 212270-0005; King County Recording Number 20050923002531)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 22. That 46th Avenue South is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and

 established upon the portion of land described in Section 21 hereof.

 Section 23. That the deed for street purposes dated September 19, 2005, by Asian

 Counseling and Referral Service, a Washington corporation, conveying to The City of Seattle for

 street purposes the following described property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The south 1.00 foot of Lot 21, Block 2, Cascade View Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 15 of Plats, page 75, Records of King County, Washington,

 Together with, the south 1.00 foot of that portion of Lot 20, said Block 2, lying westerly of the westerly margin of Empire Way (now Martin Luther King Jr. Way S.) condemned pursuant to Ordinance No. 80179 of the City of Seattle.

 Also, Together with, the south 1.00 foot of the alley bisecting said Block 2, vacated pursuant to Ordinance No. 80179 of the City of Seattle.

 Except, the following described property condemned by Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority, aka Sound Transit, pursuant to SCC No. 03-2-12587-3, and recorded under King County Recording No. 20041201000888:

 Commencing on the Northeast corner of Lot 3, Block 2, of said Cascade View Addition to the City of Seattle; thence S 1 degrees 56' 35" W, along the westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way S. right-of- way, a distance of 176.61 feet, to a point on the north line of the south 20 feet of Lot 7, and the True point of beginning; thence S 1 degrees 56' 35" W, continuing along said westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way S. right-of-way, a distance of 409.98 feet to the southeast corner of Lot 20; thence, N 87 degrees 22' 13" W, along the south line of said Lot 20, a distance of 27.00 feet; thence, N 55 degrees 13' 54" E, a distance of 20.82 feet; thence, N 1 degrees 06' 22" E, a distance of 192.11 feet; thence, N 1 degrees 33' 46" W, a distance of 47.67 feet; thence N 0 degrees 34' 04" W, a distance of 157.83 feet to a point on the north line of the said south 20 feet of Lot 7; thence, S 87 degrees 27' 51" E, along said north line, a distance of 20.35 feet to the true point of beginning.

 (RW T2005-47; a portion of tax parcel number 142630-0170; King County Recording Number 20050920000015)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 24. That South Charlestown Street is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended

 and established upon the portion of land described in Section 23 hereof.

 Section 25. That the deed for alley purposes dated October 4, 2005, by Andrew Austin

 Company, Inc., a Washington Corporation, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes

 the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The east 1.00 foot of Lots 13 and 14, Block 4, Replat of Blocks C & D, Hamblet's Acre Gardens, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats, page 23, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-48; a portion of tax parcel number 305270-0645; King County Recording Number 20051020001518)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 26. That the alley which runs in a north-south direction in Block 4, Replat of

 Blocks C & D, Hamblet's Acre Gardens, and said block being bounded on the north by NW

 70th Street, on the south by NW 67th Street, on the west by 14th Avenue NW, and on the east

 by 13th Avenue NW, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the

 portion of land described in Section 25 hereof.

 Section 27. That the deed for street purposes dated August 11, 2005, by DESC 1811

 ASSOCIATES LLC, A WASHINGTON LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, conveying to The

 City of Seattle for street purposes the following described property in Seattle, King County,

 Washington:

 The Southwesterly 2.00 feet of the following described property:

 Parcel B as designated on Short Plat number 77198, and recorded December 13, 1977 under recording number 7712130695, records of King County, Washington, being also known as a portion of the following described property:

 Lots 3 through 10, inclusive, and Lots 13, 14, and 15, Railroad Subdivision to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats, page 29, records of King County, Washington;

 Except that portion of Lot 15 and of the vacated alley (Ordinance 105050) in said Plat described as follows:

 Beginning at the more westerly corner of Lot 1, of said plat, and running in a northwesterly direction along the northeasterly line of Court Place to the most westerly corner of Lot 15;

 Thence along the northwesterly line of said Lot 15, 30 feet;

 Thence southeasterly along a line parallel with the northeasterly line of Court Place to the southwest corner of Lot 3, said plat;

 Thence 30 feet, more or less, along the northwesterly line of Lots 1 and 2, said plat, to the beginning;

 And except that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 78693 for widening of Eastlake Avenue;

 And except that portion lying within State Highway Number 1 (Seattle Freeway) as described in Deeds recorded under King County Recording Numbers 5088672, 5060052, 5123189, 5125876, 5139504, and in Superior Court

 Cause Number 541373;

 Together with that portion of the alley in said plat vacated by Ordinance Number 105050 and file number 277856 of the City of Seattle which is attached to said lots by operation of the law;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-05; a portion of tax parcel number 711750-0010-02; King County Recording Number 20050818002347)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 28. That Court Place is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and

 established upon the portion of land described in Section 27 hereof.

 Section 29. That the deed for alley purposes dated May 25, 2005, by Vixen Queen Sandy

 Corporation, a Washington corporation, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the

 following described property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The South 2 feet of Lots 1 and 2, Block 41, West Green Lake Addition No. 2 to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 15 of Plats, page 21, Records of King County, Washington,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-08; a portion of tax parcel number 926720-0080; King County Recording Number 20050531001157)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 30. That the alley which runs in an east-west direction in Block 41, West Green

 Lake Addition No. 2 to the City of Seattle, and being bounded on the east by Stone Avenue

 North, on the west by Aurora Avenue North, on the north by North 94th Street, and on the south

 by North 93rd Street is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the

 portion of land described in Section 29 hereof.

 Section 31. That the deed for alley purposes dated March 29, 2005, by SECOND AND

 BELL PARTNERS, LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, conveying to The City of

 Seattle for alley purposes the following described property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The Northeasterly 2.00 feet of the following described property:

 Lots 1 and 2, Block 26, of Second Addition to that part of the City of Seattle, Laid off by A.A. Denny and W.M. Bell (Commonly known as Bell and Denny's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 77, Records of King County, Washington;

 except that portion of said lots condemned for widening 2nd Avenue in King County Superior Court Cause Number 39151 under ordinance No. 9311 of the City of Seattle;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-09; a portion of tax parcel number 065600-0220; King County Recording Number 20050830000025)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 32. That the alley in Block 26, of Second Addition to that part of the City of

 Seattle, Laid off by A.A. Denny and W.M. Bell (Commonly known as Bell and Denny's 2nd

 Addition to the City of Seattle), and said block being bounded by Bell Street, Battery Street,

 2nd Avenue and 3rd Avenue, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established

 upon the portion of land described in Section 31 hereof.

 Section 33. That the deed for alley purposes dated May 28, 2005, by AA ASHWORTH

 DEVELOPMENT, LLC, A WASHINGTON LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, conveying to

 The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described property in Seattle, King County,

 Washington:

 The East 2.00 feet of the following described property:

 Lot 23 and the South 17.00 Feet of Lot 24, Block 3, Elbert Place Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 7 of Plats, page 37, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-12; a portion of tax parcel number 229140-0370; King County Recording Number 20050926000043)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 34. That the alley which runs in a north-south direction in Block 3, Elbert

 Place Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the north by North

 107th Street, on the south by North 105th Street, on the west by Whitman Avenue North and

 on the east by Aurora Avenue North, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and

 established upon the portion of land described in Section 33 hereof.

 Section 35. That the deed for alley purposes dated February 28, 2005, by RECONDITE,

 LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley

 purposes the following described property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The Easterly 3.00 feet of the south 1/2 of Lot 29 and the Easterly 3.00 Feet of Lot 30, Block 6, Pettit's Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 10 of Plats, page 73, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-7; a portion of tax parcel number 674670-0895; King County Recording Number 20050616000026)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 36. That the alley which runs in a north-south direction in Block 6, Pettit's

 Addition to the City of Seattle; and said block being bounded on the north by NE 52nd Street,

 on the south by NE 50th Street, on the west by 11th Avenue NE and on the east by 12th

 Avenue NE is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of

 land described in Section 35 hereof.

 Section 37. That the deed for alley purposes dated May 31, 2005, by LR ISABELLA,

 LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley

 purposes the following described property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The North (1) foot of Lots 224, 225, and 226, Block 9, Plat of Columbia, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 7 of Plats, page 97, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-17; a portion of tax parcel numbers 170290-1011 and 170290- 1016; King County Recording Number 20050617000135)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 38. That the alley which runs in a east-west direction in Block 9, Plat of

 Columbia; and said block being bounded on the north by South Edmunds Street, on the

 south by South Ferdinand Street, on the west by Rainier Avenue South and on the east by 39th

 Avenue South is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion

 of land described in Section 37 hereof.

 Section 39. That the deed for street purposes dated May 26, 2005, by HOPE FULL,

 INC, a Washington Corporation, conveying to The City of Seattle for street purposes the

 following described property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The East 6.00 feet of Parcel A and the South 3.00 feet of Parcel B and also the East 6.00 feet of the North 88.20 feet of Parcel B of Hope Full Boundary Line Adjustment No. 2200429 as recorded in King County, Washington Recording No. 20050309900005.

 (Being known as a portion of Lots 1 and 2, Block 7, Osner's Suburban Homes, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 92, Records of King County, Washington,

 (RW T2005-18; a portion of tax parcel number 643150-0311; King County Recording Number 20050603000041)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 40. That Dayton Avenue North and North 85th Street are hereby laid off, opened,

 widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 39 hereof.

 Section 41. That the deed for alley purposes dated September 28, 2005, by Roy Bishop,

 conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described property in Seattle,

 King County, Washington:

 The east 4.00 feet of Lot 12, Block 12, North Park Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 18 of Plats, page 76, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-13; a portion of tax parcel number 614560-1600; King County Recording Number 20050929002922)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 42. That the alley running in a north-south direction in Block 12, North Park

 Addition to the City of Seattle and said block being bounded on the north by North 103rd Street,

 on the south by North 102nd Street, on the west by Linden Avenue North, and on the east by

 Aurora Avenue North, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the

 portion of land described in Section 41 hereof.

 Section 43. That the deed for alley purposes dated July 7, 2005, by ROBERT B.

 NEHRING, a single person, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following

 described property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The Westerly 4.00 feet of the following described property:

 Lots 5, 6, 7, and 8, Block 6, Hillman's Lake Front Addition to the City of Seattle, (Division Number 1), Addition, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 10 of Plats, page 44, Records of King County, Washington;

 except that portion thereof condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 236360 for Aurora Avenue;

 and except that portion of said Lots 5, 6, and 7 condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 66850 for Aurora Avenue.

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-33; a portion of tax parcel number 336240-0870-05; King County Recording Number 20051019000258)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction

 of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 44. That the alley which runs in a north-south direction in Block 6, Hillman's Lake Front Addition to the City of Seattle, (Division Number 1), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 10 of Plats, page 44, Records of King County, Washington; and said block being bounded on the north by North 73rd Street, on the south by North 72nd Street, on the west by Winona Avenue North

 and on the east by Aurora Avenue North is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 43 hereof.

 Section 45. That the easement for public sidewalk purposes dated July 7, 2005, by

 ROBERT B. NEHRING, a single person, conveying to The City of Seattle an easement for

 sidewalk purposes the following described property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The Easterly 3.00 feet 4.00 inches of the following described property:

 Lots 5, 6, 7, and 8, Block 6, Hillman's Lake Front Addition to the City of Seattle, (Division Number 1), Addition, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 10 of Plats, page 44, Records of King County, Washington;

 except that portion thereof condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 236360 for Aurora Avenue;

 and except that portion of said Lots 5, 6, and 7 condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 66850 for Aurora Avenue.

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2005-34; a portion of tax parcel number 336240-0870-05; King County Recording Number 20050921000444)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such easement is placed under the

 jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 46. That the sidewalk adjoining portions of Lots 5, 6, 7, and 8, Block 6, Hillman's Lake Front Addition to the City of Seattle, (Division Number 1), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 10 of Plats, page 44, Records of King County, Washington; on the west side of Aurora Avenue North between North 73rd Street and North 72nd Street is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 45 hereof.

 Section 47. Any acts consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 48. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Greg Aramaki/GA

 SDOT.Right-of-Way Acceptance 0rdinance 1.doc

 February 23, 2005

 version #3

 1

```
