

********

**Council Bill Number: 115522**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use; amending Chapters 23.47, Commercial zones; 23.48, Seattle Mixed zone; 23.49, Downtown zones; 23.50, Industrial zones; 23.54, Parking and Access; 23.55, Signs; 23.66, Special Review Districts; and 23.84, Definitions; of the Seattle Municipal Code, specifying a definition and permitted locations and development standards for adult cabarets.

**Status:** Retired April 21, 2008
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Licata)
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 20, 2006
   
**Committee:** Urban Development and Planning
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** ADULT-ENTERTAINMENT, ZONING, LAND-USE-PERMITS, BUILDING-PERMITS, PERMITS INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICT

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use; amending Chapters 23.47, Commercial zones; 23.48, Seattle Mixed zone; 23.49, Downtown zones; 23.50, Industrial zones; 23.54, Parking and Access; 23.55, Signs; 23.66, Special Review Districts; and 23.84, Definitions; of the Seattle Municipal Code, specifying a definition and permitted locations and development standards for adult cabarets.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section Council Findings and Analysis. The City Council's Findings and Analysis are in Attachment 1 to this ordinance.

 Section Subsection E, Entertainment, of subsection I of Chart A, of Section 23.47.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance121828, is amended as follows:

 COMMERCIAL USES: CHART A For Section 23.47.004 Zones

 NC1 NC2 NC3 C1 C2

 I. COMMERCIAL USE

 * * * E. Entertainment

 1. Places of public assembly

 - Performing arts theater X P P P P

 - Spectator sports facility X P P P P

 - Lecture and meeting halls X P P P P

 - Motion picture theater X P P P P

 - Adult motion picture theater X P P P P

 - Adult panorams X X X X X - Adult cabarets X X X X X

 2. Participant sports and recreation

 - Indoor P P P P P

 - Outdoor X X X4 P P * * *

 Section 2. Section 23.48.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 118302, is amended as follows:

 23.48.006 Prohibited uses.

 The following uses are~~shall be~~ prohibited as both principal and accessory uses, except as otherwise noted:

 * * *

 F. Adult motion picture theaters,~~and~~ adult panorams, and adult cabarets;

 * * *

 Section 4. Section 23.49.044 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 112777, is amended to add a new subsection F as follows:

 23.49.044 Downtown Office Core 1, prohibited uses.

 The following uses ~~shall be~~are prohibited as both principal and accessory uses:

 * * *

 D. All salvage and recycling uses except recycling collection stations;~~and~~

 E. All high impact uses; and

F.Adult cabarets.

 Section 5. Section 23.49.062, of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 112777, is amended to add a new subsection F, as follows:

 23.49.062 Downtown Office Core 2, prohibited uses.

 The following uses ~~shall be~~are prohibited as both principal and accessory uses:

 * * *

 D. All salvage and recycling uses except recycling collection stations;

 E. All high-impact uses; and

F.Adult cabarets.

 Section 6. Section 23.49.092, of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 112777, is amended to add a new subsection F, as follows:

 23.49.092 Downtown Retail Core, prohibited uses.

 The following uses ~~shall be~~are prohibited as both principal and accessory uses:

 * * *

 D. All salvage and recycling uses except recycling collection stations;~~and~~

 E. All high-impact uses; and

F.Adult cabarets.

 Section 7. Subsection C of Section 23.49.118, of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 112777, is amended as follows:

 23.49.118 Downtown Mixed Commercial, prohibited uses.

 The following uses ~~shall be~~are prohibited as both principal and accessory uses:

 * * *

 C. Adult cabarets,~~A~~adult motion picture theaters and adult panorams;

 * * *

 Section 8. Subsection D of Section 23.49.144, of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 114623, is amended as follows:

 23.49.144 Downtown Mixed Residential, prohibited uses.

 The following uses ~~shall be~~are prohibited as both principal and accessory uses:

 * * *

 D. Adult cabarets,~~A~~adult motion picture theaters and adult panorams;

 * * *

 Section 9. Subsection C of Section 23.49.320, of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 114623, is amended as follows:

 23.49.320 Downtown Harborfront 2, prohibited uses.

 The following uses ~~shall be~~are prohibited as both principal and accessory uses:

 * * *

 C. Adult cabarets,~~A~~adult motion picture theaters and adult panorams;

 * * *

 Section 10. Subsection A of Section 23.49.338, of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 114623, is amended as follows:

 23.49.338 Pike Market Mixed, prohibited uses.

 A. The following uses are prohibited as both principal and accessory uses in areas outside of the Pike Place Market Historical District, map 1L:

 1. Drive-in businesses, except gas stations located in parking garages;

 2. Outdoor storage;

 3. Adult cabarets,~~A~~adult motion picture theaters and adult panorams;

 4. Transportation facilities;

 5. Major communication utilities;

 6. All general manufacturing uses;

 7. All salvage and recycling uses, except recycling collection stations;

 8. All industrial uses;

 9. Jails; and

 10. Work-release centers.

 * * *

 Section 11. Section 23.50.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 121476, is amended to add a new subsection E as follows:

 23.50.012 Permitted and prohibited uses.

 * * *

E. Adult cabarets

1. Adult cabarets are permitted only within that portion of the Duwamish Manufacturing and Industrial Center as depicted on Map 23.50.012A, and subject to maximum size limitations as provided in Section 23.50.027, Maximum size limits of non- industrial use.

2. Adult cabarets must be at least one thousand feet (1,000') from any school, elementary or secondary, or any facility operated by the Seattle Public School System that provides public instruction to children; child care center; park; community center; religious facility; or light rail transit station; unless separated from such other use by a significant topographic break or by Interstate 5.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter 23.55, pole or roof signs that are visible from State Route 99, the Spokane Street Viaduct, or Interstate 5 are not permitted in conjunction with an adult cabaret.

Section 12. Map 23.50.012A in Section 23.50.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 121476, is added as follows:

 Section 13. Subsection E, Entertainment, of subsection III of Chart A, of Section 23.50.012, of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 121476, is amended as follows:

 INDUSTRIAL USES CHART A for Section 23.50.012

 Uses Zones

 IG1 in IG2 in IG1 and the the IG2 Duwamish Duwamish IB IC (general) M/I M/I Center Center

 * * *

 III. Commercial.

 * * *

 E. Entertainment

 1 Places of public assembly

 a. Performing arts theater P P P X X

 b. Spectator sports P P P X6 X6 facility

 c. Lecture and meeting P P P P P halls

 d. Motion picture theater P P P X X

 e. Motion picture theater, X X X X X adult

 f. Adult panorams X X X X X

g. Adult cabaretsX X XP12 P12

 2. Participant sports and recreation

 a. Indoor P P P X P

 b. Outdoor P P P X P

 * * *

12. Adult cabarets are permitted only within the Duwamish Manufacturing and Industrial Center as provided in Section 23.50.012 E.

 Section 14. Chart B of Section 23.50.027 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 121281, is amended as follows:

 23.50.027 Maximum size of nonindustrial use.

 * * *

 CHART B

 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL ZONES

 WITHIN DUWAMISH M/I CENTER

 Categories of uses

 Subject to Size of

 Use Limits IG1 IG2

 Office uses 50,000 sq. ft. 100,000 sq. ft.

 Retail sales and

 service (except for adult  cabarets,

 restaurants and

 drinking establishments) 25,000 sq. ft. 50,000 sq. ft.

Adult cabarets5,000 sq. ft. 5,000 sq. ft.

 Restaurants 5,000 sq. ft. 5,000 sq. ft.

 Drinking establishments* 3,000 sq. ft. 3,000 sq. ft.

 Meeting halls N. M. S. L. 5,000 sq. ft..

 ______________

 N.M.S.L. = No Maximum Size Limits

 *The maximum size limit for brew pubs applies to that portion of the pub that is not used for brewing purposes.

 * * *

 Section 15. Chart A of Section 23.54.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 121792, is amended as follows:

 Chart A

 for Section 23.54.015

 PARKING

 Use Parking Requirements

 * * *

Adult cabaret 1 space for each 200 square feet

 * * *

 Section 16. Section 23.55.002 of Chapter 23.55, Signs, of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 119239, is amended as follows:

 23.55.002 Scope of Provisions.

 A. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to signs in all zones, except those zones regulated by Chapter 23.66, Special Review Districts. In any case where the provisions of this chapter conflict with development standards applicable to a specific use, the development standards for the specific use shall apply.

* * *

 Section 17. Subsection A of Section 23.66.122 of the Seattle Municipal Code, Pioneer Square Preservation District, which section was last amended by Ordinance 120928, is amended as follows:

 23.66.122 Prohibited uses.

 A. The following uses are prohibited in the entire Pioneer Square Preservation District as both principal and accessory uses:

 Retail ice dispensaries;

 Plant nurseries;

 Frozen food lockers;

 Animal services;

 Automotive retail sales and service, except gas stations located in parking garages;

 Marine retail sales and service;

 Heavy commercial services;

 Fuel sales;

 Sales, service and rental of commercial equipment and construction materials;

 Adult motion picture theaters;

 Adult panorams;

Adult cabarets;

 Bowling alleys;

 Skating rinks;

 Major communication utilities;

 Advertising signs and off-premises directional signs;

 Transportation facilities, except passenger terminals;

 Outdoor storage;

 Jails;

 Work-release centers;

 General and heavy manufacturing uses;

 Salvage and recycling uses, except recycling collection stations; and

 High impact uses.

 * * *

 Section 18. Subsection A of Section 23.66.322 of the Seattle Municipal Code, International Special Review District, which section

 was last amended by Ordinance 120928, is amended as follows:

 23.66.322 Prohibited uses.

 A. The following uses ~~shall be~~are prohibited as both principal and accessory uses in the entire International Special Review District:

Adult cabarets;

 Adult motion picture theaters;

 Adult panorams;

 All general and heavy manufacturing uses;

 All high-impact uses;

 All salvage and recycling uses, except recycling collection stations;

 Automotive retail sales and service;

 Bowling lanes;

 Major communication utilities;

 Sales, service and rental of commercial equipment and construction materials;

 Drive-in businesses;

 Frozen food lockers;

 Heavy commercial services;

 Marine retail sales and services;

 Medical testing laboratories;

 Mortuary services;

 Motels;

 Outdoor storage;

 Plant nurseries;

 Retail ice dispensaries;

 Shooting galleries;

 Skating rinks;

 Mobile home parks;

 Transportation facilities except passenger terminals;

 Animal services;

 Jails;

 Work release centers.

 * * *

 Section 19. Subsection "Places of public assembly" of Section 23.84.030 "P", of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 121700, is amended to add a subsection 4, as follows:

 23.84.030 "P."

 * * *

 "Places of public assembly" means an entertainment use in which cultural, entertainment, athletic, or other events are provided for spectators either in or out of doors. Examples include but are not limited to motion picture and performing arts theaters, spectator sports facilities, and lecture and meeting halls. Places of public assembly accessory to institutions or to public parks or playgrounds shall not be considered commercial uses.

 1. "Motion picture theater" means a place of public assembly intended and expressly designed for the presentation of motion pictures, other than an adult motion picture theater.

 2. "Motion picture theater, adult" means a place of public assembly in which, in an enclosed building, motion picture films are presented which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to "specific sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas," as defined in this subsection, for observation by patrons therein:

 a. "Specified sexual activities":

 (1) Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;

 (2) Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;

 (3) Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock or female breast.

 b. "Specified anatomical areas":

 (1) Less than completely and opaquely covered:

 (a) Human genitals, pubic region,

 (b) Buttock, or

 (c) Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or

 (2) Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.

 3. "Panoram, adult" means a device which exhibits or displays for observation by a patron a picture or view from film or videotape or similar means which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas," as defined in subsection 2.

 4. "Cabaret, adult" means a place of public assembly, where licensing as an "adult entertainment premises" is required by SMC Chapter 6.270.

~~4.~~5. "Participant sports and recreation" means an entertainment use in which facilities for engaging in sports and recreation are provided. Any spectators are incidental and are not charged admission. There are two (2) types of participant sports and recreation uses -- indoor and outdoor. Participant sports and recreation uses accessory to institutions or to public parks or playgrounds shall not be considered commercial uses.

 a. "Participant sports and recreation, indoor" means a participant sports and recreation use in which the sport or recreation is conducted within an enclosed structure. Examples include but are not limited to bowling alleys, roller and ice skating rinks, dance halls, racquetball courts, physical fitness centers and gyms, and videogame parlors.

 b. "Participant sports and recreation, outdoor" means a participant sports and recreation use in which the sport or recreation is conducted outside of an enclosed structure. Examples include tennis courts, water slides, and driving ranges.

~~5.~~6. "Performing arts theater" means a place of public assembly intended and expressly designed for the presentation of live performances of drama, dance and music, other than an adult cabaret or adult panoram.

~~6.~~7. "Spectator sports facility" means a place of public assembly intended and expressly designed for the presentation of sports events, such as a stadium or arena.

 * * *

 Section 20. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision is not intended to affect the validity of any other provision of this ordinance or the validity of any provision contained within another ordinance or code.

 Section 21 This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ____________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of ____________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: City Council's Findings and Analysis

 John Skelton/JS/DK/msl

 Adult Cabaret Ordinance

 3/8/06

 version #3b

 17

 ATTACHMENT 1

 CITY COUNCIL'S FINDINGS AND ANALYSIS

 The zoning decision before the City Council is to determine in which area of the City new adult cabarets should be permitted to locate. Although the City Council normally has wide discretion to determine where land uses may be allowed, or whether certain uses will be permitted at all, adult cabarets are a unique type of land use because they enjoy constitutional protection that other uses lack. Therefore the Council's decision about where new adult cabarets should be permitted is constrained by constitutional criteria that must be considered when the Council makes its zoning decision.

 The principal constitutional criterion is a requirement that the City's zoning provide an adequate number of possible locations for new adult cabarets. Whether the areas allowed are adequate depends in part upon the number of new adult cabarets that may seek to open. Seattle has had approximately four adult cabarets in operation in recent years. The City is aware of one potential, additional adult cabaret that has sought to open, but it is unknown whether that interest remains. Because the zoning proposal now before the Council allows the existing adult cabarets to remain at their present locations, the number of known, potential adult cabarets that would need a location is assumed to be one. However because it is conceivable that in the future other persons might want to open new adult cabarets, the City assumes for purposes of this analysis that the market demand for new adult cabarets might double the historic demand. Although this level of demand is unlikely in light of the history of this use in Seattle, the City chooses to err on the safe side in light of the constitutional consideration. In other words, for purposes of the market demand analysis, the City should zone a sufficient area to allow up to four new adult cabarets to locate in the City. Therefore in addition to the four existing adult cabarets,

 the four hypothetical new adult cabarets would provide the City with at least eight adult cabarets.

 If it is assumed that sufficient area must be zoned to allow for up to four new adult cabarets, the question then is, where in the City should these potential, new adult cabarets be allowed? As with any zoning decision, the principal consideration is the extent to which a given use is compatible with other land uses. This is the essence of zoning. Adult cabarets may have certain adverse land use impacts that are not common to commercial uses generally. This is particularly true when adult cabarets are located in or near residential neighborhoods.

 One impact is the relative, negative effect that an adult cabaret may have on the value of nearby property. Preservation of property values is a recognized purpose of zoning. Because evidence suggests that the negative effect on property values is likely to be greater when the adult cabaret is located in or near a residential area, the zoning recommended here would not allow new adult cabarets to be located in zones where general residential uses are permitted.

 Another set of land use impacts that adult cabarets may have is upon the perception of neighborhood character. For example, signs for adult cabarets are often sexually graphic and garish, and considered incompatible with residential neighborhoods, especially near schools or parks where children are present. And because adult cabarets are often busiest at night, noise from patrons entering or leaving the cabarets or in parking lots, and noise from police or emergency vehicles, can disrupt the peace and quiet that is desired in a residential area.

 There is some evidence that the presence of adult cabarets corresponds to increased levels of crime in an area, including sex- related crimes such as prostitution. In addition, because alcohol is not served inside adult cabarets, and recreational drugs are illegal, it is believed that consumption of alcohol and drugs occurs in adult cabaret parking lots or on adjacent public streets. These criminal activities are particularly problematic and incompatible with residential uses.

 Because of these potential impacts, the Council has decided that new adult cabarets should not be allowed in or near zones permitting general residential uses. This recommendation is consistent with the City's Comprehensive Plan, which contains a number of policies that address compatibility of uses in residential areas. See Exhibit A.

 When zones allowing general residential uses are excluded, the City still has substantial land area where new adult cabarets could be located, primarily in areas that are zoned for industrial uses. The proposed area in which new adult cabarets could be located provides ready access by major streets and highways. The area is bordered by Interstate 5 on the east, and is within about six blocks of State Highway 99 on the west. Two major arterials traverse the area from north to south: 4th Avenue S. and Airport Way S. S. Spokane Street is a major arterial that bisects the area from east to west. Complete freeway access is provided nearby at the I-5/I-90 interchange near Safeco Field and Qwest Field, and at the I-5/Spokane

 Street interchange. Because most adult cabaret patrons are believed to arrive by automobile and draw from the region as well as the City proper, the availability of such ready access makes this area particularly well suited to this type of use.

 The proposed area contains numerous parcels and buildings that could reasonably accommodate a new adult cabaret. Although some property and buildings are better suited to industrial uses, the area already contains a number of nonindustrial uses such as restaurants and retail establishments, particularly those located along 4th Avenue S. or Airport Way S. Some of the parcels and buildings appear to be for sale or lease now. In short, the proposed area appears to provide a reasonable number of sites that are currently available or likely to be available in future years, to meet reasonably anticipated demand for new adult cabarets.

 The proposed legislation limits the visibility of signs for adult cabarets from certain highways. By reducing visibility, the legislation may limit the number of cabaret patrons, thereby reducing the potential for secondary effects such as increases in crime and consumption of alcohol and drugs. The legislation does not regulate the content of signs that are allowed.

 In summary, the Council believes that the proposed zoning should be adopted because it meets constitutional standards for zoning adult uses and meets City policies for compatibility of land uses.

 1

 AE findings & analysis.doc 3/10/06 Attachment 1

 EXHIBIT A

 Exhibit A to City Council's Findings and Analysis

 Consistency of Proposed Regulations for Adult Cabarets with Seattle's Comprehensive Plan

 Seattle regulates the uses permitted in a land use category or zone so that adjacent uses and zones are appropriate neighbors. By defining the different uses that are permitted in an area, and the conditions under which they are permitted, Seattle's Comprehensive Plan creates different types of districts. While not specifically addressing adult cabarets, Seattle's Comprehensive Plan contains goals and policies relating to the compatibility of uses.

 LU8 Allow or prohibit uses in each zone based on the intended function of the zone and the impacts the uses can be expected to have on the zone and the surrounding area.

 Residential Areas Policies

 Seattle's residential area policies emphasize the need to protect residential areas from incompatible uses and activities. In single family neighborhoods the policies recognize that some non-residential uses may be consistent with residential zoning, such as churches and schools or parks. Specific policies address how to accommodate institutional use. No policies for commercial uses in single family zones exist.

 The Comprehensive Plan encourages allowing some level of commercial use in higher density multifamily zones. The anticipated commercial uses are those that can be anticipated to fulfill the needs of local residents. These uses do not include entertainment or uses that would otherwise conflict with the necessity of protecting residential neighborhoods from the impacts of commercial activity such as noise, or parking and traffic. The policies also emphasize the need to provide transitions between residential zones and areas of more intense commercial or non-residential activity.

 Because adult cabarets are commercial uses, they are not appropriate in single family areas. Because of their negative impacts, they are also a use that the City can reasonably say is incompatible with the multifamily zones.

 LU62 Limit the number and types of non-residential uses permitted in single-family residential areas to protect those areas from the negative impacts of incompatible uses.

 LU63 In order to maintain single-family areas in residential use, prohibit parking lots or other uses accessory to permitted uses in abutting higher intensity zones from expanding into single-family residential areas.

 LU78 Limit the number and type of non-residential uses permitted in multifamily residential areas to protect these areas from negative impacts of incompatible uses.

 LU79 Provide zoning classifications that permit limited amounts of commercial use in what are otherwise residential zones in order to either provide retail and service uses in close proximity to residents in the densest multifamily environment or to create transitions between commercial and multifamily areas.

 Commercial Areas Policies

 Commercial area policies emphasize vital mixed use commercial neighborhoods that contain business activities that serve, and are compatible with the character of, surrounding neighborhoods. Commercial area policies generally emphasize mixed uses and favor uses that provide the goods and services needed by City residents. The primary distinction among commercial areas is between those areas that may be oriented to vehicle access versus those areas that are primarily pedestrian-oriented. In general, Seattle's Comprehensive Plan favors the conversion of auto oriented, general commercial zones to a pedestrian orientation.

 Adult cabarets can have a negative effect on the business climate in a neighborhood and discourage pedestrians who aren't patrons. Commercial areas on the City's Future Land Use map, which governs how zoning designations are distributed across Seattle, are frequently narrow and many of them abut single-family neighborhoods, without structural or topographic barriers. Therefore, allowing adult cabarets in these areas would work against the City's goals for commercial areas as pedestrian-oriented, neighborhood-serving business districts.

 LUG17 Create strong and successful commercial and mixed-use areas that encourage business creation, expansion and vitality by allowing for a mix of business activities, while maintaining compatibility with the neighborhood-serving character of business districts, and the character of surrounding areas.

 LU107 Distinguish between pedestrian-oriented commercial zones which are compatible with and easily accessible to their surrounding neighborhoods, and general commercial zones which are intended to accommodate commercial uses dependent on automobile or truck access.

 LUG20 Encourage diverse uses that contribute to the city's total employment base and provide the goods and services needed by the city's residents and businesses to locate and remain in the city's commercial areas.

 LU134 Use general commercial zones to support existing auto-oriented commercial areas serving a citywide or regional clientele ...In order to support more pedestrian-friendly environments within urban villages, encourage the conversion of general commercial areas within urban villages to pedestrian-oriented commercial zones.

 Downtown Neighborhood Plan Policies

 The Comprehensive Plan for downtown is based upon the Downtown neighborhood plan. The policies developed as part of the Downtown Neighborhood Plan encourage a compactly developed area, supporting a diversity of uses, including residential, arts and entertainment, and retail, in a pedestrian environment with high pedestrian volumes. Many of Seattle's Downtown neighborhood goals talk of encouraging investment to serve the needs of downtown residents and workers, including a re-invigorated retail environment, opportunities for childcare for workers and residents, and care for Seattle's distinctive neighborhoods downtown.

 City policies are intended to maximize housing throughout Downtown, and adult cabarets would be considered incompatible with goals for attracting both pedestrian-oriented businesses and housing. Auto orientation, blank facades, negative effects on surrounding businesses, all characteristics of adult cabarets, are discouraged in areas where residential uses are encouraged.

 DT-G7 Encourage a mix of housing, employment and related support activities in a crescent bounding the office and retail cores. Within this crescent, foster areas that are predominantly residential in character, including the Chinatown/International District and Belltown. Encourage housing as the primary use in these areas and limit the type and scale of non-residential uses allowed to ensure that such development is compatible with a residential neighborhood.

 DT-G10 Seek to significantly expand housing opportunities in downtown Seattle for people of all income levels...

 DT-G11 Seek to address the increased demand for child care services generated by increased employment growth downtown and support the provision of adequate human services to meet the needs of downtown residents and workers.

 Uses that serve the downtown residential community and workers who spend much of their day downtown are encouraged. These uses are intended to support increases in residential and office uses. Uses such as childcare and other human service uses are inconsistent in an environment of adult cabarets.

 DT-LUP6 Use overlay and district regulations to further specific goals and objectives for areas of downtown where guidance is needed to protect and promote special qualities. Recognize sensitive environmental, physical, historical or cultural qualities of these areas by coordinating land use district classifications with overlays as appropriate.

 The street level environment of downtown is important to attaining downtown goals. Pedestrian circulation and accessibility, safe streets, transparency along pedestrian walkways, businesses serving downtown residents and visitors, are promoted.

 DT-TP5 Promote pedestrian circulation as the principal method of movement for trips within downtown. Improve the street level environment as the primary component of the pedestrian network. Strive to make the pedestrian network accessible to the elderly and disabled.

 COM-G1 Maintain the Commercial Core as a major employment center, tourist and convention attraction, shopping magnet, residential neighborhood, and regional hub of cultural and entertainment activities.

 DEN-G1 A diverse residential neighborhood with an even distribution of income levels.

 Industrial Areas Policies

 In identifying the majority of the City's industrial zoned areas as a Manufacturing and Industrial center, the Comprehensive Plan commits the City to protection and preservation of industrial land. While broadly prohibiting residential uses, the Plan Recognizes the historical development of industrial areas and the necessity of allowing other non-industrial uses in industrial areas. The Comprehensive Plan sets out policies that identify uses that should be allowed to the extent that they are compatible with industrial traffic and activities or do not threaten to significantly preclude industrial activities.

 LU156 Use the General Industrial zones to promote the full range of industrial activities and related support uses. Distinguish among general industrial zones based on the density permitted for commercial uses not related to industrial activity.

 LU158 Seek to protect industrial activity by differentiating among General Industrial zones according to permitted densities for commercial uses not directly related to industrial activity and by limiting the size of certain permitted uses.

 The City's policies generally talk about "limiting," as opposed to "prohibiting" non-industrial uses. While it disfavors unrelated uses, the emphasis is on uses that conflict with industrial activities or that would convert significant amounts of Industrial land. If a use conflicts with industrial uses it should be restricted or prohibited.

 UV 24 Limit in manufacturing/industrial areas those commercial or residential uses that are unrelated to the industrial function, that occur at intensities posing short- and long-term conflicts for industrial uses, or that threaten to convert significant amounts of industrial land to non-industrial uses.

 LUG27 Restrict or prohibit uses that may negatively affect the availability of land for industrial activity, or that conflict with the character of industrial areas.

 Where commercial uses reinforce industrial character or serve industrial uses they are permitted, but otherwise the Comprehensive Plan calls for limiting specific uses that are non-industrial. These limits have been interpreted to pertain to retail and office uses in industrial areas. These uses that are limited need not necessarily reinforce industrial character in order to be permitted.

 LU143 Permit commercial uses in industrial areas to the extent that they reinforce the industrial character, and limit specified non- industrial uses, including office and retail development, in order to preserve these areas for industrial development.

 GD-G8 the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center remains a Manufacturing/Industrial Center promoting the growth of industrial jobs and businesses and strictly limiting incompatible commercial and residential uses.

 GD-P8 Strive to protect the limited and non-renewable regional resource of industrial, particularly waterfront industrial, land from encroachment by non-industrial uses.

 (Emphasis on protecting waterfront industrial land.)

 Given the City's legal requirement to allow adult cabarets in the City, it may be necessary to make choices in spite of policies that arguably disfavor them in any zone. All of the City's commercial/mixed uses areas, including downtown, have one common characteristic, housing is allowed and to some extent encouraged, in an environment that is pedestrian and neighborhood serving. Industrial zones are the only zones not generally allowing residential uses, that do not encourage supporting services such as childcare or schools at which children may be present, or neighborhood serving retail sales and services, and do not emphasize a pedestrian environment.

 5

 AE Comprehensive Plan Analysis.doc 3/10/06 Exhibit A to Attachment 1

 Exhibit A to Attachment 1

```
