

********

**Council Bill Number: 115596**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122135**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with Seattle Out and Proud for the presentation of annual Seattle Pride festivals at Seattle Center.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 12, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 20, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 19, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 5, 2006
   
**Committee:** Parks, Education, Libraries and Labor
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, CIVIL-RIGHTS, GAYS, FESTIVALS

**Fiscal Note:**115596

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with Seattle Out and Proud for the presentation of annual Seattle Pride festivals at Seattle Center.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director, or his or her designee, is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, an agreement with Seattle Out and Proud substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as 'AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SEATTLE OUT AND PROUD CONCERNING THE SEATTLE PRIDE FESTIVAL' (Attachment 1) for purposes related to the presentation of annual Seattle Pride festivals at Seattle Center from 2006 through 2008.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SEATTLE OUT AND PROUD CONCERNING THE SEATTLE PRIDE FESTIVAL

 Ned Dunn

 May 9, 2006

 CEN Pride Festival ORD

 Version #1

 1

 Attachment 1

 AGREEMENT

 BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 AND

 SEATTLE OUT AND PROUD

 CONCERNING THE SEATTLE PRIDE FESTIVAL

 THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), a first class City of the State of Washington, acting by and through the Director of its Seattle Center Department ("Director"), and Seattle Out and Proud ("Licensee"), a nonprofit tax-exempt Washington corporation.

 WHEREAS, the City desires to co-sponsor and co-promote on the Seattle Center grounds an annual arts, crafts, vendor and entertainment festival thematically oriented to generate pride in the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and allied communities, which festival shall be free and open to the public, and known as the Seattle Pride Festival ("Festival"); and

 WHEREAS, Licensee has 22 years of history and professional experience in various arts, crafts, vendor and entertainment fields as well as professional and other contacts with experts having knowledge, experience and performance ability of benefit to the City in the production of the desired Festival; and

 WHEREAS, Licensee is willing to perform certain services for the City in connection with the production of the Festival and with the City to co-sponsor the same.

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and performances hereinafter described, the parties agree as follows:

 I. TERM:

 This Agreement shall begin on June 7, 2006, and shall expire on December 31, 2008 (the "Term"), unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions in this Agreement.

 II. LICENSEE OBLIGATIONS:

 A. Licensee shall plan, organize, stage, produce and evaluate the Festival, which shall occur annually during the Term and run for two consecutive days, each annual Festival beginning on a Saturday in June and ending on the following Sunday.

 For each year during the Term, the Festival shall take place on the following dates:

 June _24,25__, 2006

 June __23,24_, 2007

 June__26,27__, 2008

 B. With the Director's written approval and subject to facility availability, Licensee may schedule additional Festival activities during the two (2) days preceding and the two (2) days following each annual Festival. Any request to conduct such additional Festival activities shall be made in writing to the Director at least three (3) months prior to the first day of the applicable Festival, and the Director shall respond to such request with reasonable promptness.

 C. In carrying out its obligations under this Agreement, Licensee shall comply with the Seattle Center Site Guidelines for Major Festivals ("Site Guidelines") and Seattle Center Facility Addenda ("Facility Addenda"), or any successor publications. The current Site Guidelines and Facility Addenda, which are subject to modification from time to time by the Director, are attached hereto as Exhibits A and B, and incorporated herein by reference. The City will make a good faith effort to work with Licensee to resolve issues that may result from any modifications.

 D. Damage and Loss Deposit. On or before the first move-in day for each Festival throughout the Term, without the need for any invoice, Licensee shall deposit with the Director the sum of $3,000, which sum shall be held by the City as a deposit for Licensee's faithful performance of all of its obligations with respect to the production and evaluation of that year's Festival and for any other loss or damage that the City may suffer by reason of Licensee's default or use of the Premises for Festival-related purposes. If Licensee defaults with respect to any provision of this Agreement or the City is damaged in any way by Licensee's permitted use, the City may (but shall not be required to) use, apply or retain all or any part of this deposit for the payment of any amount which City may spend by reason of Licensee's default or use. If Licensee fully and faithfully performs its obligations with respect to a given Festival, then the City shall return the applicable deposit or any balance thereof to Licensee at the conclusion of each Festival but not sooner than ten (10) days after Licensee has vacated the Premises.

 E. Report of Damage or Destruction. Licensee shall submit a written report to the Director regarding the circumstances of any damage to the Premises within twenty-four (24) hours after its discovery or notification of such damage by the Director.

 III. CITY OBLIGATIONS

 A. Facilities

 1. Facility Use. Subject to the Special Conditions denoted in the table below and provided each facility or grounds area then exists and is functioning as a public use facility and is included in the then-current Facility Addenda, the City shall provide the following facilities and grounds areas for Licensee's Festival- related use. The facilities and grounds areas are collectively referred to in this Agreement as the "Premises.". If Licensee chooses to use any facility or grounds area as a ticketed-event venue or fails to use any facility or grounds area that it has reserved, then Licensee shall pay the current Seattle Center commercial rental rate for the facility; otherwise, unless specifically stated to the contrary, the City will provide all facilities specified in this Agreement at no cost to Licensee.

 As used in this Agreement, a facility or grounds area "exists and is functioning as a public use facility" means the facility or area has not been or is not scheduled to be demolished or destroyed or under construction and, at the time Licensee desires its use, the Director is willing to allocate whatever resources are required to keep it in good operating condition and open and available for public use on a regular basis (rather than especially for Licensee's use). The Director retains sole discretion to discontinue, for good cause, the public use of any facility or grounds area comprising the Premises and to thereby make it unavailable hereunder. Where possible, the Director will attempt to accommodate Licensee's needs and interests when it considers further development of the Premises.

 facility Special Conditions

 a. Center House Festival use shall be subject to and Conference Center consistent with contracts between the -Rooms A, B, H, and E City and the Seattle School District for use by the Center School. Access to Freight Elevator to be coordinated with Center School activities.

 b. Center House Stage Festival use shall be consistent with and and Public subject to contracts between the City and Programming space on resident merchants. the second floor of Center House

 c. Mural Amphitheater

 d. International Fountain Mall Open Space

 e. Fisher Pavilion

 f. Seattle Center Pavilion

 The conditions for use of the above-listed facilities shall not be affected by any change in the name of such facility, or their substitute facilities, if applicable.

 2. Notice of Cancellation. To the extent possible, Licensee agrees to give Seattle Center 30 days' notice for any facility or grounds area that will not be used.

 3. Move-in and Move-out Days. Licensee shall also be entitled to up to three (3) days immediately preceding each Festival for festival move-in and up to two (2) additional days immediately following each Festival for move-out. Additional move-in and/or move-out days for any facility of grounds area may be added at the Director's discretion.

 4. Readerboards and Banners. Beginning one (1) week prior to the commencement of each Festival, the City shall advertise the Festival on (3) general Seattle Center readerboards of its choosing and on such facility-specific readerboards (identified in the Facility Addenda), as may be then available. Seattle Center staff shall mount a Licensee-supplied banner on the Mercer Street elevated walkway before each Festival as early as is reasonably possible. If there is no other major festival or event, then Licensee's banner shall be hung on the Mercer Street elevated walkway fourteen (14) days prior to the opening of the Festival.

 B. City-Supplied Services

 1. Labor. For each Festival, the City shall provide at Licensee's expense, Seattle Center technical equipment operators and other staff as specified below to meet Festival sound, stage, security, janitorial and other needs as stated in the approved Event Service Order described in Exhibit A. Upon invoice therefor, Licensee shall promptly reimburse Seattle Center at the current in- house labor rates, which include benefits and paid time off, and overtime if incurred.

 2. Waste Removal. Licensee shall assist Seattle Center personnel in the planning and implementation of a waste removal program which may require Licensee, at no cost to the City, to collect, sort and separate into such categories as Seattle Center may request, all solid waste products that the Festivals generate on the Premises. Licensee shall rent dumpsters specifically for the Festivals and pay all disposal charges for waste generated by the Festivals. This does not include waste generated by the Seattle Center offices, Seattle Center House concessionaires, the Fun Forest and other Seattle Center facilities and grounds not part of the Festival Premises. Removal of garbage and recycling from the Premises during the days of the Festival shall be the responsibility of the Licensee

 The City reserves the right to refuse to collect or accept from Licensee any waste product that is not sorted and separated as the Director requires, and to require Licensee to arrange for the collection of the same at Licensee's sole cost and expense using a City-approved contractor. Licensee shall pay all costs, fines, penalties and damages that may be imposed on City or Licensee as a consequence of Licensee's failure to comply with the provisions of this subsection.

 Recycling. Licensee shall secure and have installed on the Premises for the duration of each Festival, at no cost to the City, appropriate containers for the recycling of all solid waste products that are locally accepted for recycling. Licensee, at no cost to the City, shall require each of its food and beverage concessionaires to collect, sort and separate, all solid waste products generated by its activities and events on the Premises, and to recycle all such products that are locally accepted for recycling. Licensee shall ensure that each separately sorted category of waste products is placed in a separate receptacle subject to the approval of the Director, which receptacles shall be dumped or removed from the Seattle Center at such minimum frequency as is specified by the Director. Licensee shall specifically require each of its food and beverage concessionaires to not combine any glass or aluminum containers with such concessionaires' non-recyclable garbage, and vice versa. Licensee to arrange for the collection of the same at Licensee's sole cost and expense using a contractor satisfactory to the Director. Licensee shall pay all costs, fines, penalties, and damages that may be imposed on the City or Licensee as a consequence of Licensee's failure to comply with the provisions of this Subsection.

 3. Parking. Seattle Center Transportation shall provide Licensee with parking permits as indicated below. All permits shall be used only for Festival-related purposes and shall contain the statement that they are "for official/business purposes only."

 Number of Permits Location Uses

 22 Fifth Avenue For Licensee's move-in/out and Parking Lot, Festival days only. only

 5 1st Avenue Year-round for Licensee staff. Parking Lot Each pass shall be issued to a (or, during designated staff member and is Sonics games, non-transferable. for use in the Mercer Street Garage or Fifth Avenue Parking Lot)

 25 Fifth Avenue Saturday, Sunday of the Festival, Parking Lot only, for performers and volunteers.

 Max. 10 Fifth Avenue For Festival move-in/move-out and Over-sized Parking Lot Festival days; oversized vehicles Vehicles of performers or volunteers may Only park in the Fifth Avenue Parking Lot by entering through the gate on Republican Street immediately adjacent to Fifth Avenue.

 4. Conference and Meeting Facilities. Throughout the Term, Licensee may reserve, free of any license fee, such Seattle Center conference center rooms as may be available on dates other than those of any annual Festival, for Festival-related activities. Licensee may reserve up to four separate dates at 120 days prior to the event. The availability of additional dates will not be confirmed by the City prior to ninety (90) days in advance of their desired use by Licensee. Licensee shall reimburse the city for any labor incurred as a result of Licensee's use of conference center rooms at the rates stated in III. B.1 of this Agreement.

 IV. PUBLICITY AND MEDIA RESPONSIBILITIES.

 A. Sponsorships. Licensee is authorized to secure corporate business and individual sponsorship to assist in defraying the costs to produce the yearly Festival. All sponsors require Director approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 B. Attribution. All Festival publicity shall identify Seattle Center as a major Festival sponsor. Such publicity shall include the wording, "Sponsored by Seattle Out and Proud and Seattle Center" and, whenever Licensee's logo is used, shall include the Seattle Center logo which logo shall not be smaller in size than that of any other major Festival sponsor.

 C. Sponsorships Package. No later than 90 days before each Festival, Licensee shall provide Seattle Center with a "Major Sponsor" package that includes all promotional benefits to Seattle Center, the value of said benefits, implementation of and the demonstration that said package is identical or equivalent to those afforded all other "Major Sponsors".

 D. Cross-Promotional Activities. Licensee shall develop and implement a cross-promotional strategy in cooperation with the Director, whereby Seattle Center may promote itself, events, and activities using Licensee's communications and promotional tools. Licensee may promote events and activities by way of the Seattle Center communications systems and use Seattle Center's promotional tools only with the Director's permission.

 E. Promotional Materials; Incorporation of Seattle Center Logo. Licensee shall incorporate the Seattle Center logo on all its collateral pieces, advertisements, website, and all press releases. The Seattle Center Logo shall have at least the same size as the largest other sponsor logo. Licensee shall, to the extent possible, include in any promotional material imprinted or published or otherwise produced by or on behalf of Licensee that refers to the Premises, including not limited to the advertisements, posters, programs, but not including tickets, notice that the Premises are located at the Seattle Center.

 F. Linked Websites. Licensee shall maintain a link between its website and the Seattle Center website.

 G. Seattle Center Booths. Seattle Center shall be entitled to up to three mutually agreeable spaces, free of charge, for exterior and/or interior booths for the duration of each Festival, for promoting Seattle Center events, festivals, and/or activities. Seattle Center is responsible for any costs of maintaining the booth.

 H. Media Rights. Both the City and Licensee shall have the right to photograph and record (audio or video) any and all activity during any Festival, for promotional purposes, including but not limited to entertainment, without any compensation having to be paid by either party to the other.

 I. Photographic and Recording Releases. Licensee shall secure from each Festival performer a written document authorizing the City's and/or Licensee's use, without compensation to such performer, of such performer's photographic image and recorded commentary or music (both audio and video) for public information and promotional purposes only. Licensee shall maintain such records in its offices during the term of this Agreement and in King County, Washington for a period of three years after the expiration or termination of this Agreement. All records shall be available to the City for inspection during that time.

 J. Graphics Ownership. Licensee shall own the rights to all graphics it produces in implementation of this Agreement, provided, however, that Licensee hereby grants City a nonexclusive limited license to use any and all such graphics free of charge for any promotional activities directly related to the Festival.

 K. Licensee's Responsibilities regarding Publicity. Licensee shall furnish the Director with such programming material regarding the Festival, its participants, and related matters, as the Director may request and is reasonably available. Licensee shall produce a printed program, press releases, and posters and flyers in such numbers as may be appropriate to publicize the Festival, all of which Licensee shall deliver for approval to the Seattle Center Marketing Director at least four weeks in advance of the proposed use or distribution. Approval will not be unreasonably withheld and will be given within three business days.

 L. Prohibited Promotion & Other Material; Removal of Same. Licensee shall not display, post, or distribute any sign, symbol, advertising of any nature, or any printed material (including but not limited to posters) on any part of the Seattle Center without the Director's approval.

 V. CONCESSION RIGHTS.

 A. Grant of Rights. Licensee is hereby granted, during each Festival, the following concession rights on the Premises (excluding the Center House Food Court Level): (a) to sell photographs, posters, art works, crafts, printed materials, and video and audio recordings or other media, all of which have an artistic base, theme or groundwork related to the Festival; (b) to sell souvenir items related to the Festival, generally, but not related to Seattle Center, including depicting the Seattle Center logo; (c) to sell food and beverages, including beer and wine in locations designated by the Director; (d) to sell items related to the Festival; and (e) to authorize others to sell such items. Licensee shall obtain and/or ensure that each of its sub-licensees or sub-concessionaires obtains all necessary permits (e.g., health, business, liquor) for the conduct of its operations.

 B. Concession Fee: Licensee shall pay to the City fifteen percent (15%) of all Gross Receipts derived from the sale of food, wine, beer and other merchandise or items sold in relation to the Festival.

 In this Agreement, "Gross Receipts" means and includes the total income of Licensee and every other person or entity conducting business in, on or from the Premises pursuant to this Agreement ("Concessionaires") including, but not limited to, the proceeds from all retail and wholesale sales of food, beverages and services; the sale of merchandise, of any kind whatsoever, for cash, barter, exchange or credit, regardless of collections; sales from vending devices; mail or telephone orders received or filled on or from the Premises; all deposits not refunded to purchasers; orders taken although filled elsewhere; fees; commissions; catalog sales; and rental receipts. All installment or credit sales shall be deemed to have been made for the full price on the date of sale regardless of when payment is received.

 Gross Receipts does not mean or include the amount of money refunded to and not merely credited to the account of customers who return or do not accept merchandise or services sold by Licensee or any Concessionaires; any exchange of merchandise between stores or the central warehouses of Licensee or any Concessionaires, where such exchange is made solely for the convenient operation of Licensee's or any Concessionaire's business and not for the purpose of consummating a sale made in, on or from the Premises; returns to shippers or manufacturers; any discount allowed by Licensee or Concessionaires to customers; the Washington State Sales Tax and any other tax imposed by any government agency directly on sales.

 C. Evidence of Authorization. All individuals and business entities authorized by Licensee to engage in concession activity during any Festival shall obtain from Licensee and display on their person or place of business on Seattle Center grounds, official acknowledgment of such authorization in a form approved by the Director. Licensee shall ensure that all vendors secure all necessary permits and licenses.

 D. Prohibited Food Packaging Material. Licensee shall not dispense, or allow distribution to the general public of, any food or beverage container made of glass or of any material that is currently or hereinafter prohibited by City ordinance (i.e., polystyrene, per City ordinance #114035). Licensee and each of its Concessionaires that offer any food or beverage for sale on or from the Premises shall serve such food only in or on a paper or clear plastic container.

 E. Booth Fees. Licensee may charge a fee to any person it authorizes to engage in concession sales on Seattle Center grounds during a Festival. Such fee may consist of a booth fee established by Licensee, plus up to thirty (30%), inclusive of the 15% of gross receipts paid to Seattle Center, of such person's gross receipts. Such fees shall be subject, each year, to the Director's prior approval.

 VI. TIME AND PLACE OF PAYMENT- DELINQUENCY CHARGE.

 A. Time and Place of Payments:

 (1) Fees and charges specified in Section 5.B. are due and payable on the July 15th immediately following each Festival, without the need for any invoice from the City. Licensee shall include with its payment each year a detailed report of the Gross Receipts generated during that year's Festival on a form that the City will provide, together with other information regarding that year's Festival as the City may reasonably request.

 (2) Fees and charges included in any year's Seattle Center Festival Event Service Order (including but not limited to the charges imposed pursuant to Section 3) and all other fees and charges not otherwise specified herein are due and payable no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the City invoice therefor.

 B. Delinquencies:

 Payments not received on or by the date due shall be considered delinquent. If there is any delinquency, a service charge of the greater of 18% per annum or such other amount as may be established by City ordinance, shall be added to the outstanding balance from the date when payment was originally due to the date paid. Licensee's obligation to pay the fees and charges specified herein shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

 C. Disputed Fees:

 If Licensee disputes any City invoice or other charge imposed pursuant to this Agreement, Licensee shall remit the full amount of the invoice or charge on or by the date it is due and payable, and concurrently submit to the Director a notice explaining the basis for Licensee's dispute. Upon receipt of any disputed payment and Licensee's explanation notice, the Director shall schedule a meeting with Licensee within the following thirty (30) calendar days to provide an opportunity for the parties to resolve their dispute. Licensee's failure to remit the disputed amount(s) as provided herein shall constitute a waiver of Licensee's dispute with respect to such invoice or other charge and the amount shall then be considered delinquent and Licensee shall be deemed to be in material breach of this Agreement.

 D. Address for Payments to City:

 All payments shall be made payable and shall be delivered to The City of Seattle c/o Seattle Center Fiscal Services & Accounting, 305 Harrison Street, Seattle, WA 98109, or to such other address as the Director shall specify.

 VII. ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS.

 A. Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following terms shall be defined as provided below unless the context clearly requires a different meaning:

 1) "Laws or Regulation" means any environmentally related local, state or federal law, regulation, ordinance or order (including without limitation any final order of any court of competent jurisdiction of which the Lessee has knowledge), now or hereafter in effect including but not limited to the Clean Air Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Re-authorization Act of 1986, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act as amended by the Solid and Hazardous Waste Amendments of 1984, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, and the Solid Waste Disposal Act.

 2) "Hazardous Substances" means any hazardous, toxic, or dangerous substance, waste, or material that is regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, or regulation relating to environmental protection, contamination or cleanup.

 B. Restrictions on Licensee Activities. Licensee shall not cause to occur upon the Premises, or permit the same to be used to generate, produce, manufacture, refine, transport, treat, store, handle, dispose, transfer, or process Hazardous Substances except in compliance with all applicable Laws and Regulations. Licensee shall provide the Director with Licensee's USEPA Waste Generator Number (if any), and with a copy of every Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), Generator Annual Dangerous Waste Report, environmentally related regulatory permit or approval (including every revision or renewal thereof) and any correspondence Licensee receives from, or provides to, any governmental unit or agency in connection with Licensee's handling of Hazardous Substances or the presence, or possible presence, of any Hazardous Substance on the Premises. All references to the "Premises" in this Section VII, and except as specifically excluded elsewhere herein.

 C. Correction of Violations. If Licensee violates any of the terms of this Section concerning the presence or use of Hazardous Substances or the handling or storing of hazardous wastes, Licensee shall promptly take such action as is necessary to mitigate and correct the violation. If Licensee does not act in a prudent and prompt manner, the City reserves the right, but not the obligation, to act in Licensee's place (for which purpose Licensee hereby appoints the City as its agent), to come onto the Premises and to take such action as the City deems necessary to ensure compliance or to mitigate the violation. If the Director has a reasonable belief that Licensee is in violation of any law or regulation, or that any action or inaction of Licensee presents a threat of violation or a threat of damage to the Premises, the City reserves the right to enter onto the Premises and take such corrective or mitigating action as the Director deems necessary. All costs and expenses incurred by the City in connection with any such action shall become immediately due and payable by Licensee upon presentation of an invoice therefor.

 E. Removal of Hazardous Substances Prior to Vacation of Premises. Before vacating any portion of the Premises, in addition to all other requirements under this Agreement, Licensee shall remove any Hazardous Substances that Licensee placed on the Premises during

 the term of this Agreement or Licensee's possession of the Premises, and shall demonstrate such removal to the Director's reasonable satisfaction.

 F. Reimbursement of City Costs. In addition to any remedy provided above, the City shall be entitled to full reimbursement from Licensee whenever the City incurs any cost resulting from Licensee's violation of any of the terms of this Section VI, including, but not limited to, the cost of clean-up or any other remedial activity, fines, penalties assessed directly against the City, injuries to third persons or other property, and loss of revenue resulting from an inability to re-lease or market the Premises due to its environmental condition as the result of Licensee's violation of the

 terms of this Agreement (even if such loss of revenue occurs after the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement).

 G. Indemnification In addition to all other indemnities provided in this Agreement, and notwithstanding the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, Licensee agrees to and shall defend, indemnify and hold the City free and harmless from any and all claims, causes of action, regulatory demands, liabilities, fines, penalties, losses, and expenses, including without limitation cleanup or other remedial costs (and including attorneys' fees, costs and all other reasonable litigation expenses when incurred and whether incurred in defense of actual litigation or in reasonable anticipation of litigation), arising from the existence or discovery of any Hazardous Substance on the Premises resulting from a violation of the terms of this Section, or the migration of any Hazardous Substance from the Premises to other property or into the surrounding environment that is the result of a violation of the terms of this section, whether (a) made, commenced or incurred during the term of this Agreement, or (b) made, commenced or incurred after the expiration or termination of this Agreement if arising out of an event occurring during the term of this Agreement.

 VIII. LICENSEE FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS.

 A. Use of Proceeds. All money collected by Licensee from Festival concessions and other Festival activities, excluding donations, shall be allocated directly to the operations of the Festival.

 B. Payment of Costs. All costs associated with the sponsorship and production of the Festival shall be the responsibility of, and shall be paid by, Licensee except those costs that the City, as co-sponsor, has specifically assumed in Section III, above.

 C. Operating Budget. Licensee shall maintain an annual operating budget sufficient to fund the operation of the Festival, to maintain an annual administrative operation, and to support Licensee's related activities.

 D. Solicitation of Donations. Licensee is hereby authorized to solicit donations from the general public at Seattle Center during the Festival and during other Licensee-sponsored activities at Seattle Center.

 IX. TRANSFER OF RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS.

 A. Assignment or Subcontracting. Except as provided in Section V of this Agreement pertaining to concession sales, Licensee shall not subcontract, assign, or otherwise transfer this Agreement, or any of the rights or obligations hereunder, or lease, license or otherwise authorize the use of any part of Seattle Center without the prior written consent of the Director, which consent may be withheld in the Director's sole discretion. No assignment of this Agreement, with or without the Director's consent, shall release or relieve Licensee of or from any of the obligations to be kept and performed by Licensee under this Agreement. Any assignment shall be subject to all the terms and provisions of this Agreement. In the event of any authorized assignment of this Agreement, Licensee shall deliver to the Director simultaneously with such assignment, an instrument, in writing, executed by the assignee, in which the assignee assumes and agrees to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement.

 B. Interests Not Transferable by Action of Law or Court: This Agreement shall terminate automatically in the event Licensee files any claim in bankruptcy for protection, reorganization or the like. Neither this Agreement, nor any right, privilege, nor other interest conferred by this Agreement shall pass to any trustee or receiver in bankruptcy or to any receiver or assignee for the benefit of creditors; nor shall this Agreement or any rights, privilege, or interest be transferable by operation of law or proceeding of any court.

 X. LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES.

 Licensee shall keep all City premises free and clear of any liens and encumbrances arising or growing out of its use and occupancy of Seattle Center. At the request of the Director, Licensee shall deliver to the Seattle Center Director written proof of the payment of any item that could be the basis for such a lien, if not paid.

 XI. NO NUISANCES OR OBJECTIONABLE ACTIVITY.

 Licensee shall not permit any excessive or objectionable noise, odor, dust, vibration, or other similar substance or condition to remain on or be emitted from Seattle Center during each year's Festival; shall not interfere with access from Seattle Center or any part thereof, or with the traffic thereon; shall not create any nuisance in or adjacent to Seattle Center, and shall not knowingly do anything at Seattle Center that will create a danger to life and limb. Licensee shall comply with the City of Seattle noise ordinances.

 XII. AUDIT.

 Licensee shall permit the City, from time to time as the Director deems necessary, to inspect and audit in King County, Washington, at any and all times, all pertinent books and records of Licensee and any concessionaire or other person or entity that has carried on a business activity on or from Seattle Center during the Festival, to verify the accuracy of accounting records; and shall supply the City with, or shall permit the city to make, a copy of any books and records and any portion thereof, upon the Director's request. Licensee shall ensure that such inspection, audit and copying right of the City is a condition of any license, concession agreement or other arrangement under which any other person or entity is permitted to carry on a business activity on or from Seattle Center during the Festival.

 XIII. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.

 A. General Requirements. Licensee, at no cost to the City, shall perform and comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and Municipal Code of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of administrative agencies and the officers thereof. Licensee shall use its best efforts to ensure that every person it admits to the Premises similarly performs and complies with the same. Whenever Licensee or its authorized representative is informed of any violation of any such law, ordinance, rule, regulation, license, permit, or authorization committed by it or any person admitted to the Premises, Licensee shall immediately desist from and/or prevent or correct such violation.

 B. Licenses & Other Authorizations. Licensee, at no cost to the City, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement, all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 C. Taxes. Licensee shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities on or occupancy of the Premises, including but not limited to taxes arising out of the activity or business conducted on the Premises; taxes levied on its property, equipment and improvements on the Premises; and taxes on Licensee's interest in this Agreement and any leasehold interest deemed to have been created thereby under RCW Ch. 82.29A. If the State of Washington makes any demand upon the City for payment of leasehold excise taxes resulting from Licensee's occupancy of the Premises or withholds funds due to the City to enforce collections of leasehold excise taxes, Licensee shall remit the taxes demanded together with any interest and penalties associated therewith or, at no expense to the City, contest such collection action and indemnify the City for all sums expended by, or withheld by the State of Washington from the City in connection with such taxation.

 D. Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action. Licensee shall comply shall comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle, including but not limited to Chapters 14.04, 14.10 and 20.42 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as they may be amended from time to time, and rules, regulations, orders and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 XIV. INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION.

 A. Insurance to be Procured by Licensee. At all times during the Term of this Agreement, Licensee shall maintain in full force and effect and at its sole expense, insurance as described in Exhibit C.

 B. Termination Upon Failure to Insure. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the failure of Licensee to comply with the provisions of this section shall subject this Agreement to immediate termination at the discretion of the Director, without notice to Licensee.

 C. Licensee Indemnification. Licensee hereby agrees to indemnify, save harmless and defend the City from all claims, demands, suits, judgments, and liability (including reasonable attorney's fees, losses, costs and expenses of any kind) arising out of, in connection with, or incident to the negligent acts, errors, or omissions of, or breach of contract by, Licensee, its agents, and employees in performing its obligations under this Agreement.

 D. City Indemnification. The City hereby agrees to indemnify, save harmless and defend Licensee from all claims, demands, suits, judgments, and liability (including reasonable attorney's fees, losses, costs and expenses of any kind) arising out of, in connection with, or incident to the negligent acts, errors, or omissions of, or breach of contract by, the City, its agents, and employees in performing its obligations under this Agreement.

 E. Survival of Obligation; Waiver of Immunity. The indemnification provided for in Subsections C and D shall survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement. The parties further waive, with respect to one another and for purposes of this Agreement, only, their immunity under RCW Title 51, Industrial Insurance. The parties acknowledge that the foregoing waiver was mutually negotiated.

 XV. CITY'S ACCESS TO PREMISES; INSPECTION, REPAIR, AND IMPROVEMENT OF PREMISES AND OTHER PROPERTY; WITHDRAWAL OF PREMISES.

 A. Access to Premises. The City retains the right of access at all times to all City property and facilities comprising the Premises, to inspect the same and to make any repair, improvement, alteration, or addition thereto or to any other property owned by or under the control of the City that the Director deems necessary, but this right of access shall not impose on the City any obligation to make any repair, alteration, addition, or improvement except as specifically provided herein.

 B. Permitted Interference. In inspecting, and in making repairs, alterations, additions and improvements, the City may erect barricades and scaffolding in and outside of the affected premises, and may otherwise interfere with the conduct of the Festival where such action is reasonably required by the nature of the City's work, and such interference shall not be deemed to be a breach or default under this Agreement. The City shall use its best efforts to minimize interference with access to and from the Premises and with Licensee's activities and operations on or from the Premises.

 C. Suspension of Activities and Operations. In the event such inspection, repair, alteration, addition, or improvement work necessitates the temporary suspension of the Festival or any part thereof, or of Licensee's activities and operations on the Premises, or any portion thereof, the Director shall notify Licensee of such necessity and the anticipated beginning and ending dates of such suspension at least four (4) months in advance, whenever possible. Such suspensions may be ordered with less notice in the event of an emergency, as determined by the Director. Licensee hereby waives any and all rights to claims for damage for any injury to and/or interference with its operations or business and losses occasioned by any such suspension.

 XVI. CITY'S RESERVATION OF RIGHTS CONCERNING BUILDINGS, GROUNDS AND ACTIVITIES.

 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the City, without liability of any kind, may:

 A. increase, reduce, and change in any manner whatsoever the number, appearance, dimensions, and locations of Seattle Center walks, buildings, landscaping, parking, and service areas, and may

 also make improvements, alterations, and additions to the common areas of any Seattle Center building;

 B. regulate all traffic within and adjacent to Seattle Center;

 C. erect, display and remove promotional exhibits and material and permit special events on Seattle Center grounds, buildings and facilities.

 D. promulgate, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations regarding the use and occupancy of any area of Seattle, including the Premises;

 E. restrict or prohibit the parking on City-owned or leased property of motor vehicles owned or operated by Licensee and any of its officers, employees, agents, suppliers, invitees, and Festival participants except as provided in Section III.B.3 and described in the approved Event Service Order;

 F. determine the days and hours Seattle Center will be open to the public;

 G. change the size, number and type and identity of other concessions, stores, businesses, and operations being conducted or undertaken at Seattle Center;

 H. place on the Premises with the cooperation of Licensee a cart and/or booth for the purpose of promoting Seattle Center development and/or merchandise;

 I. interfere with light, air or view, or Licensee's operations, either in connection with or as a result of operations by or for City in the construction of any public work or its subsequent use and occupancy, or the repair and maintenance of any City facility or improvement. The City will make a good faith effort to minimize such interference to the extent it is reasonably economical for the City to do so; and

 J. exercise any other power or right authorized by law or ordinance.

 XVII. CITY'S RIGHT TO DISAPPROVE MERCHANDISE AND PRICES.

 In order to protect the public visiting Seattle Center from price gouging, and to ensure that a variety and diversity of food, beverages, merchandise and entertainment are offered to the same, the City reserves the right to:

 A. Prohibit Price Gouging. Disapprove the price of any food, beverage, item of merchandise or service that is substantially higher than the price charged by a substantially similar business in the region, and prohibit the charging of such substantially higher price.

 B. Prohibit the Sale of Objectionable Materials. Prohibit the sale of any item of any food, beverage, item of merchandise or service that is unsafe; that portrays the City or Seattle Center or any aspect thereof in an incorrect or misleading manner; that is inappropriate for a family-oriented arts, recreation and entertainment facility such as Seattle Center; or that may create a substantial litter or other maintenance problem at Seattle Center; all of which shall be determined solely by the Director.

 XVIII. DEFAULT & BREACH.

 A. Licensee's Default & Breach. The following shall acts or omissions shall constitute a material breach and default of this Agreement:

 1) Licensee's failure to comply with all of the requirements of Section XIII hereof, regarding insurance; or

 2) Licensee's violation of any law, Charter provision, ordinance, rule, regulation, governmental authority's order or directive; or

 3) Licensee's failure or refusal to produce the Festival; or

 4) Licensee's repeated failure to perform or the violation of any single condition or covenant of this Agreement on two or more occasions in any twelve (12) month period; or

 5) Licensee's assignment of its interest in this Agreement without the Director's prior written consent; or the filing of a voluntary or involuntary petition in bankruptcy, or for reorganization or an arrangement; or the adjudication of Licensee as being bankrupt or insolvent; or the appointment of a receiver of or for Licensee if such appointment, adjudication or similar order or ruling remains in force or unstayed for a period of thirty (30) days; or

 B. Notice of Default & Breach. Unless this Agreement provides otherwise, the Director shall notify Licensee, in writing, of any act or omission the Director determines is a default in the terms or conditions of this Agreement. The notice shall specify the nature of the default, the reasonable number of days (but not more than sixty (60) days) after the date of the notice within which such default must be remedied.

 XIX. TERMINATION

 A. For Cause. Either party may terminate this Agreement in the event the other fails to perform any obligation described in this Agreement, and such failure has not been corrected to the reasonable satisfaction of the other in a timely manner.

 B. For Reasons Beyond Control of Parties. Either party may terminate this Agreement without recourse by the other where performance is rendered impossible or impractical for reasons beyond such party's reasonable control such as, but not limited to, acts of nature; war or war-like operations; civil commotion; riot; labor dispute including strike, walkout or lock out; sabotage; or superior governmental regulation or control.

 C. Termination Rights in Event of Damage or Destruction.

 1) By Licensee. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary, if Licensee determines that, following damage or destruction to the Premises, that the same are no longer fit for Licensee's intended use, then Licensee may terminate this Agreement by providing written notice thereof to the Director.

 2) By City. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary, if any facility comprising the Premises is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty, or if the City desires to discontinue Licensee's operations because of substantial damage or destruction of any part of Seattle Center, regardless of whether the Premises are destroyed or damaged, the City may terminate this Agreement by notice to Licensee.

 D. Notice. Notice of termination shall be given by the party terminating this Agreement to the other not less than five (5) days prior to the effective date of termination.

 XX. NOTICES AND DELIVERABLE MATERIALS. All notices and other material to be delivered hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered or mailed to the following: To City: Director, Seattle Center Department 305 Harrison Street Seattle, Washington 98109

 To Licensee: President, Seattle Out and Proud 1605 12th Ave. STE 12 Seattle, Washington 98122-2480

 or other such respective address(es) as either party may from time to time designate in writing.

 XXI. DIRECTOR'S AUTHORITY.

 The term "Director" as used throughout this Agreement means the Director of Seattle Center or his/her designee. No action of the Director and his/her designee pursuant to or in implementation of this Agreement shall constitute any official action by any other City Department or official that may be required by law, ordinance, rule or regulation before Licensee may rightfully commence, suspend, enlarge, or terminate any particular undertaking or may obtain or exercise any particular right or privilege under this Agreement. Any approval, consent or permission required of the Director by this Agreement may be granted, conditioned or withheld by the Director in the exercise of such official's sole discretion.

 XXII. AMENDMENTS.

 No modification or amendment of any of the provisions hereof shall be effective unless in writing and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties hereto.

 XXIII. NO WAIVER.

 No action other than a written document from the Director specifically so stating shall constitute a waiver by the City of any particular breach or default by the Licensee, nor shall such a document waive Licensee's failure to fully comply with any other term or condition of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge any City officer or employee may have of such breach, default, or noncompliance. The City's failure to insist upon full performance of any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed to constitute consent to or acceptance of such incomplete performance in the future.

 XXIV. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.

 Rights under this Agreement are cumulative; the failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. Each party shall also have any other remedy given by law. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 XXV. CAPTIONS.

 The titles of sections and subsections are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 XXVI. INVALIDITY OF PARTICULAR PROVISIONS.

 Should any term, provision, condition or other portion of this Agreement or the application thereof be held inoperative, invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement or the application of such term or provision to persons or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect.

 XXVII. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT.

 The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 XXVIII. BINDING EFFECT.

 The provisions, covenants and conditions in this Agreement apply to bind the parties, their legal representatives, successors, and assigns.

 XXVIII. PREVIOUS AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED.

 The terms and conditions of this Agreement superseded the terms, obligations and conditions of any existing or prior agreement between the parties, whether written or oral, regarding the subject matter of this Agreement.

 XXIX. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.

 This Agreement, including the Exhibits attached hereto and forming a part hereof, are all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions, either oral or written, between the parties.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by having their authorized representatives affix their signatures below.

 SEATTLE OUT AND PROUD THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By ______________________________ By ______________________________

 Dale Kershner, President Robert Nellams, Acting Director

 Seattle Out and Proud Seattle Center Department

 Date: Date:

 ACKNOWLEDGMENT STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss COUNTY OF KING ) On this _______day of __________________________________, 2006, before me personally appeared _________________________________, to me known to be the person(s) described in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the same as a free and voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and, under oath, stated that such official was authorized to execute said instrument. GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL the day and year first above written. _______________________________________________

 Signature

 _______________________________________________

 (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of

 Washington, residing at ____________________________

 My appointment expires: ___________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss COUNTY OF KING ) On this _______ day of __________________________________, 2006, before me personally appeared ________________________________ to me known to be the Director of Seattle Center Department of The City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and, under oath, stated that such official was authorized by ordinance to execute said instrument. GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL the day and year first above written. _______________________________________________

 Signature

 _______________________________________________

 (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of

 Washington, residing at ____________________________

 My appointment expires: ___________________________

 Pride-06-08Final.doc CEN Pride Festival ORD Att. 1

 Page 1 of 21

 May 16, 2006

 EXHIBIT A TO SEATTLE PRIDE PRIDE FESTIVAL AGREEMENT

 SITE GUIDELINES FOR PRODUCING

 THE SEATTLE PRIDE FESTIVAL AT SEATTLE CENTER

 Pride Exhibit A.doc Exhibit A to Att. 1 to Pride Festival Ordinance

 VISION STATEMENT

 Seattle Center is the nation's best gathering place. Its roots reach back more than 100 years as a site of Native American celebrations. Today this place is home to major sports teams, top performing arts groups and the city's most recognized attractions. It's the place to be for rock concerts and operas, art fairs, basketball, ballroom dancing and major festivals of the arts and culture that are signature events for Seattle, King County and the entire Pacific Northwest region.

 As an agency of the city, Seattle Center works hard to create environments respectful of each festival's distinctive mission, audience and needs. In order to meet the needs of each festival and to protect this precious site for all users at all times, these site guidelines have been drawn up as a framework around which to plan. They are designed to facilitate teamwork between Seattle Center staff and festival organizers. They convey the spirit of cooperation Seattle Center brings to making major festivals the heart of its outdoor programming.

 I. SEATTLE PRIDE FESTIVAL OBLIGATIONS

 A. Licensee shall employ or otherwise provide all professional staff necessary to ensure production of the Festival at Seattle Center. Such staff shall be employed consistent with the City's union agreements.

 B. For each annual Festival, Licensee shall submit to the Director the following planning and operational documentation on or by the indicated dates:

 August 1 Draft Facility Use Plan for the following year's Festival*

 November 1 Draft Organizational Budget for the following year**

 February 1 Draft Map Set/Confirmed Facility Use Plan

 April 25 Draft Event Service Order With Site Maps of Seattle Center. Licensee will submit Admissions requirements earlier if necessary but not before April 1.

 June 1 Final Event Service Order

 September Festival Report 30

 Facility Use Plan: Each Facility Use Plan shall describe which facilities and areas of Seattle Center Licensee proposes to use for the Festival and what general activities would take place during the next Festival. Licensee shall be permitted to use Center House Conference Rooms A, B, H, E free of any license fee, from the Friday prior to the Festival through completion of the Festival move-out. This usage shall be noted on the facility use plan. Load-in days for the Pride Festival shall occur as per Agreement.

 Draft Organizational Budget: Each Draft Organizational Budget shall pertain to Licensee's fiscal year and shall be prepared according to standard accounting practices.

 C. Event Service Order: Licensee shall develop and produce a separate Event Service Order for each Festival. If the Event Service Order submitted by Licensee is not consistent with the Site Guidelines and Facility Addenda, Seattle Center staff shall so notify Licensee, the parties shall negotiate modifications to the Event Service Order to accommodate their respective needs and the Event Service Order shall thereafter be revised. Licensee shall bear any costs incurred for the production of the original or revised Event Service Order.

 1) Each Event Service Order shall describe the complete technical and facility set-up that Licensee desires in or on the Seattle Center facilities and grounds that have been reserved for use during that year's Festival, including all Seattle Center equipment, services, supplies and material within the specified facilities and available for use at specified "on-grounds areas", as indicated in the Site Guidelines and Facility Addenda. Any equipment Licensee wishes to use that is not identified in the Site Guidelines for Major Licensee and the Seattle Center Facility Addenda publication as being generally available from Seattle Center is subject to the Director's approval, which approval shall be granted or denied, in writing, within fifteen (15) City working days after the City's receipt of the draft Event Service Order. No changes in the final Event Service Order shall occur after June 1 of any year, unless due to circumstances beyond Licensee's control. Licensee may supplement equipment provided by Seattle Center and provide its own labor to set up, move out and operate said equipment provided such activities are consistent with then-current contracts between the City and its labor unions.

 2) Those items of Seattle Center production equipment that the Director approves for Festival use shall be provided to Licensee at no cost. If some or all of the requested equipment is or becomes unavailable for Festival use because of damage, destruction or malfunction, the Director shall notify Licensee of the unavailability as soon as possible after such unavailability becomes known, and in such event the City shall make a good faith effort but shall not be obligated to furnish replacement items. A list of production equipment available for use during the Festival shall be given to Licensee each January during the term of this Agreement for the following year's Festival. Licensee shall return all Seattle Center equipment on or before the end of the move-out period specified for the facility or grounds area with respect to which such equipment is associated or related. The City shall cooperate with Licensee to install, in a timely manner, all stage and production facilities and equipment needed for the Festival, as determined by Licensee and as approved for such use by the Director. Supplying additional production equipment which is not available for use at Seattle Center generally throughout the year shall be the responsibility of Licensee.

 D. Festival Report: Each Festival Report shall include a complete financial and programmatic evaluation of the immediately preceding Festival, together with sample programs. Detailed recommendations for future efforts toward the planning, organizing, staging, production and evaluation of the Seattle Pride Festival at Seattle Center also shall be submitted to the Director as part of the Festival Report.

 E. Acceptance of Documents. Except as otherwise provided in this section, if the Director determines that a portion or all of the documents or plans submitted by Licensee hereunder are unacceptable, for any reason, the Director shall notify Licensee of that determination, in writing, within thirty (30) working days after receipt of said document(s). Licensee shall have five (5) City working days to correct any deficiencies identified by the Director.

 F. Data Phone Service. Licensee shall use the data and phone services provided by CCPI, the exclusive Seattle Center provider for all phone and data requirements. Licensee shall provide a list of phone and data needs to CCPI by May 1st of each year during the Term.

 G. Festival Staffing. Licensee shall employ or otherwise secure the services of whatever professional and technical staff, in coordination with Seattle Center, that are required to competently plan, organize, stage and produce each Festival. This includes, but is not limited to, a Production Manager to advance all production needs, Stage Managers for each stage to interface with talent, Area Supervisors to oversee vendor load in, Security, etc.

 II. GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR FESTIVAL OPERATIONS*

 *All temporary and/or permanent modifications to Seattle Center buildings, landscape and/or equipment for Licensee must be reviewed and approved by the Seattle Center Event Service Representative (ESR). Current City, State and Federal laws apply. Current agreements between the City and the unions apply. Questions about exemptions to the Site Standards are to be forwarded to the ESR.

 A. Licensee shall advise any decorator, contractor, vendor, employee, volunteer or lessee of the Seattle Center Site Guidelines for Producing Major Licensee.

 B. Licensee shall pay a minimum of $500.00 per incident for any permanent damage to Seattle Center planted beds, trees, shrubs, etc.

 C. Licensee and the City shall jointly determine the levels of security for each Festival.

 D. Licensee shall maintain access to Seattle Center building entries, exits, fire lanes, restrooms, electrical panels (National Electrical Code requires a minimum 3' clearance), fire hydrants, sound equipment control rooms, ATM machines, site signs, telephones, drinking fountains and the Monorail during move-in/event/move-out times. If necessary, Licensee shall supply traffic guards to ensure access.

 E. Not more than three temporary mobile ATM machines may be deployed during the annual festival, at Licensee's sole cost and expense. Such ATMs shall be placed no closer than 500' to an existing Bank of American ATM and no temporary ATM shall be branded with the name of a financial institution. Any other temporary ATM deployment shall be subject to the Bank of America's approval.

 F. Seattle Center shall provide to Licensee equipment, which is available, and in the general inventory throughout the year, excluding portable equipment owned by the Seattle Center Foundation. Additional equipment needed for the event shall be provided by Licensee, including forklifts. Seattle Center desires that pieces of portable equipment stay within the facility to which they have been assigned. However, Seattle Center will work with Licensee on deployment of equipment.

 G. Seattle Municipal Code Section 25.08.520 (City Noise Control Ordinance shall be observed). Outdoor amplified sound shall not occur past 10PM. Licensee shall propose a noise abatement plan to Seattle Center should the current City Noise Control Ordinance pose operational problems.

 H. Burns are not allowed at Seattle Center. Any use of fire inside facilities and/or on the grounds must be pre-approved by Seattle Center and the Seattle Fire Department. Use of fire is also subject to requirements contained in the Washington Administrative Code.

 I. Licensee shall adhere to any relevant grounds access policies that are currently in place or are added during the term of this Agreement. This includes provisions for gate staffing, security personnel, the use of bollard keys, venue keys, vehicles access and any other precaution that the Director requires to secure any portion of Seattle Center for the public safety.

 J. Only vehicles authorized by Licensee and displaying an approved Seattle Center parking pass shall access the Seattle Center grounds. Any vehicle found without proper credentials may be ticketed, towed or both at the owner's and/or Licensee's expense.

 III. PROGRAMMING

 A. Programming must be appropriate for a family-oriented arts, recreation and entertainment facility such as Seattle Center.

 B. Programming that may encourage audience participation may result in the need for additional security staffing, stage barricade, etc., at Licensee's expense. Licensee agrees to work in coordination with Seattle Center on a case-by-case basis.

 C. Licensee is responsible for any damage resulting from programming.

 D. After-hours parties in Seattle Center facilities or on Seattle Center grounds must be pre-approved. Alcohol is allowed in pre- approved Festival beer-garden and wine venues only.

 IV. BUILDINGS/FACILITIES/STRUCTURES

 A. Use only pre-approved tape on painted, varnished and/or finished surfaces.

 B. Building lights shall be modified only with the assistance or approval of the Seattle Center electrician.

 C. Licensee shall supply ladders as necessary.

 D. To avoid ceiling damage, hanging items from Seattle Center facility ceilings must be pre-approved.

 E. Access to Seattle Center facility rooftops is restricted to Seattle Center staff.

 F. Only electric and propane powered vehicles are generally allowed to operate inside Seattle Center facilities during move- in/move out. These vehicles shall have pneumatic tires. Forklifts and other vehicles may be pre-approved for Licensee's use. Display vehicles shall be pre-approved by the ESR and the Seattle Fire Department. Licensee shall to provide adequate floor protection for move-in/event/move-out.

 G. A Festival banner may be attached to the Mercer Skybridge per current contract guidelines. The banner will be hung by the Seattle Center stage crew. The signs shall be a minimum of 12' long; maximum of 30' long. Maximum height of sign is 3-1/2'. Grommets shall be inset at 2' centers. General Festival sponsor banners shall not include advertisements for hard liquor (beer and wine allowed) or illegal activity.

 V. ELECTRICITY

 A. Licensee shall supply electrical cable and extension cords as necessary. Licensee shall hire electricians licensed in the State of Washington to install electrical cable and obtain the proper permits. All electrical work shall comply with the current City of Seattle Electrical Code and the National Electrical Code.

 B. Licensee's electrical systems shall be compatible with Seattle Center power sources.

 C. Electrical cables and/or microphone cords which cross aisles or walkways shall be appropriately suspended or covered with rubber channel mats (or grid mats if on lawn) to conform to safety standards and prevent trip hazards.

 D. Use of ungrounded "zip cord" for lighting displays is prohibited unless devices meet UL listings.

 VI. GROUNDS/LANDSCAPING

 A. The use of polystyrene is discouraged. Festival garbage and recycling programs are administered per current Festival contract.

 B. The minimum height for suspending over any campus roadway is 14'.

 C. Landscaped areas, including barked areas (excluding lawns), are generally off limits - no booths, storage, etc. Booths shall remain on the hardscape.

 D. Operation of all vehicles is allowed on asphalt surfaces only. Driving on pavers is discouraged. Driving on the lawn areas is not allowed. Should driving on any lawn area be necessary, 3/4" plywood shall be laid to cover wheelbase and then removed as soon as possible.

 E. The general speed limit on Seattle Center grounds is 10 mph.

 F. Activities (i.e., vendor booths, massage tables, balloon blowers, fortune tellers, hair artists, bubble blowers, etc.) which are approved by Licensee for lawn areas shall be placed on a 2"X" base and covered with plywood flooring. This guideline includes the entire activity area, including storage and cooking areas. All activities on lawn areas shall be pre-approved and listed in Event Service Order maps. In certain cases this guideline may not be feasible, and Licensee shall work with Seattle Center to protect the lawn as much as possible.

 G. All trees and limbs used for any Festival activity shall be protected with a protective layer of soft, woven material or rubber hose (burlap and foam padding approved). Any use of trees and limbs for Festival activity shall not exceed the strength of the tree. The Seattle Center Landscape Crew Chief shall determine whether to disallow any activity that such official determines may damage or injure trees and limbs.

 H. All planted areas, including buildings, grass and lawns shall be protected from heat caused by cooking equipment. I. Licensee shall provide adequate traffic guards to ensure that trees, buildings and other campus fixtures are not harmed by the move-in/move-out process. Heavy equipment should be directed away from lawns and vegetation to avoid damage. Heavy equipment shall not be allowed on grounds without adequate traffic guards.

 J. Staking is prohibited at Seattle Center to avoid damage to the underground water lines. Tents, stages, or other items that require guy wires should attach the ground end of the guy wire to concrete blocks (preferred) unless the Seattle Center Landscape Crew Chief approves another method. K. No dumping of any product, liquid or solid, is allowed anywhere on Seattle Center grounds. Licensee shall make arrangements to legally dispose of all liquid and solid refuse. Illegal dumping is subject to fines by Seattle Center and the King County Water Quality Department.

 L. The Seattle Center Landscape Crew Chief shall be advised on irrigation needs, redeployment of moveable planters and seating benches.

 M. Hanging Baskets are considered permanent fixtures and are not to be moved or damaged.

 N. Licensee shall work with Seattle Center to provide adequate fencing (picket is preferred in non-beer garden areas) to protect landscaped areas that are at high risk of damage due to programming. A fencing plan is to be agreed upon by Licensee and the Seattle Center Landscape Crew Chief prior to move-in.

 O. Adequate surface protection (i.e., Astroturf) shall be provided for cooking, oil or grease-producing activities. Any waste produced from such activities shall be disposed of in appropriate containers supplied by and disposed of by Licensee (for grease) and Seattle Center (for ash).

 VII. MECHANICAL SYSTEMS/PLUMBING

 A. No heat or air conditioning will be available in any Seattle Center facility if the facility roll door is open. Special effects may impair the HVAC system (i.e., fire, smoke, etc.).

 B. Licensee shall endeavor to avoid blocking air return and supply grills.

 C. Licensee shall work with Seattle Center plumbers to check for potable water locations before setting up for exhibits. All water connections to Seattle Center hardware shall be done by Seattle Center Plumber.

 VIII. SAFETY

 A. Forklift and general vehicle operators shall be licensed in accordance with all current laws. Forklift operators shall be competent to operate a forklift and successfully complete a training course as defined in the Washington Administrative Code 296-24- 23025(2). Copies of fork lift certification for all staff operating forklift, must be given to Festival ESR prior to the first day of load in.

 B. No passengers shall be permitted on forklifts, electric carts, or any other vehicle unless seated in the original passenger seats, one passenger to a seat.

 C. All Festival personnel shall wear appropriate safety gear.

 D. Vehicle traffic is discouraged once the Festivals open. Should vehicle use be necessary on grounds, the vehicle operators shall provide a minimum of one person to walk the vehicle through the crowd to the designated area(s). This person shall be easily visible to all patrons.

 E. It is the responsibility of Seattle Center staff to reasonably protect the facilities and grounds and ensure the safety of all patrons for all events. Seattle Center staff shall report safety concerns to the Director, Event Service Representative(s) and/or Building Manager(s) who will work closely with Licensee to create a safe environment for everyone.

 F. Seattle Center staff (Director, Duty Manager(s), Event Service Representative(s) and/or Building Manager(s retains ultimate authority for safety issues, including halting performances and adjusting safety procedures in facilities if necessary. Licensee and Seattle Center will work on this guideline to form a safety plan agreeable to both organizations.

 G. Licensee will invite the Seattle Center Festival coordinator and Event Service Representative to participate in the appropriate meetings with Seattle Fire Dept. and Seattle Police Dept. and Peer Security.

 H. Licensee shall provide adequate medical staff including a minimum of two paramedics on site for each Festival day.

 IX. PUBLIC ARTWORK

 A. A clear, unobstructed line of sight and access to all public art shall be maintained. No attachments of any kind shall be made to existing public artwork on the grounds. Festival may propose a variance to Seattle Center if appropriate on a case-by-case basis.

 X. CENTER HOUSE

 A. Seattle Center recommends using the Center House Stage for spectator events. Floor (i.e., expo) events are recommended for the third floor balcony area. Should Licensee choose not to program the Center House Stage, Licensee will give Seattle Center three months notice prior to the first day of the Festival so that Seattle Center can provide spectator programming.

 B. Programming on the Food Court Level shall not obstruct line-of- sight or walkways to Center House merchant establishments.

 C. It is a goal of Seattle Center to retain a maximum number of tables and chairs on the 2nd floor, food court area.

 D. Center House ingress/egress shall be maintained. Programming next to Center House access doors is discouraged.

 E. Festival shall work with Seattle Center Contracts & Concessions Office to create an access plan for employees of Center House merchant establishments prior to load-in. Center House deliveries will be coordinated with Festival.

 F. All Festival sales in Center House are to be approved by the Seattle Center Contracts & Concessions Office.

 XI. FISHER PAVILION

 A. Programming on the rooftop plaza requires Director's approval.

 B. No large dynamic loads, i.e. merry-go-round, on the rooftop plaza.

 C. No trucks or other vehicles, other than Seattle Center forklifts, on the rooftop plaza. If a festival sponsor, such as an auto or motorcycle sponsor, or festival requests a single vehicle or display of small vehicles then weight limit factors apply. The negotiation of said activity shall be decided by the Event Service Representative.

 D. Load in/load out through front roll-up doors and/or west loading area and freight elevator, and back corridor.

 XIII. FOUNDER'S COURT

 Food and/or beverage booths & vehicle operation in this area are generally discouraged.

 XIV. INT'L FOUNTAIN, DUPEN FOUNTAIN & OTHER ARTISTIC & DISPLAY FOUNTAINS

 A. Pedestrian traffic (including strollers and wheelchairs) is permitted in the International Fountain. Sun bathing with bathing suits is permitted in the International Fountain. Bicycles and skates are not allowed in the International Fountain. Any changes in the sound/water programming shall be discussed with the Director and Event Service Representative.

 B. Wading in the DuPen Fountain is permitted. Climbing the sculptures and rocks is not permitted.

 C. Children require an adult supervisor.

 D. Pets are generally not allowed in the fountains.

 E. Access to fountains shall be maintained. No attachments of any kind shall be made to fountains. Festival will work with Seattle Center to create a plan to monitor safety issues at the fountains.

 1 of 10

 April 27, 2006

 EXHIBIT B TO SEATTLE PRIDE FESTIVAL AGREEMENT

 SEATTLE CENTER FACILITY ADDENDA

 CONFERENCE CENTER

 ROOM A & H B

 Room Capacities:

 Theatre Style 120 60

 Classroom 81 36 Style

 Characteristics

 Dimensions 27'x67' 28'x28'

 Square 1800 785 Footage

 Ceiling 10' 10' Height

 Carpeted 12'x8'x10" NA Riser

 Floors Carpet Carpet

 Room Lighting Fluorescen same t & Incandesce nt

 Included with License Fee

 Projection 6'x10' NA Screen

 Projection 1 each 1 each Table 2'x3'

 House Sound yes rental System

 Microphones 2 each NA Classroom tables are 30" x 6' and seat 3 people at each.

 One parking permit is available if all rooms are leased.

 Included with License Fee, subject to availability:

 Tables and chairs except for areas set by a

 decorator

 U.S. and State Flags

 Chalkboards

 Easels

 Lecterns, standing and table

 Electrical service connections must be performed by Seattle Center staff or Washington State licensed electricians approved by Seattle Center, and be in compliance with City of Seattle DCLU codes.

 For the safety of our guests, vehicular activity on the grounds is limited. Citations are issued for any vehicle which does not have a parking permit or 30 minute load/unload permit or which overstays the 30 minutes. Discuss your need for these with your ESR who will supply them where policy allows.

 ALL SEATTLE CENTER EQUIPMENT MUST BE SET UP AND OPERATED BY SEATTLE CENTER STAFF.

 SET-UPS: Facilities are cleaned prior to each Event and set according to the plan written by the Event Service Representative (ESR) assigned to your Event. This plan is based on your Event requirements which are due from you at least 15 days prior to the Event; additional charges apply if information is received later.

 One standard set-up per day is included with the license fee. Provision of an additional set-up on any day is subject to staff availability and additional labor charges.

 There is a freight elevator in the Southeast corner of Center House for moving in materials and equipment. SOAP will need to coordinate use with Center School. Exhibitors may carry in and set-up their own exhibits. If porter service is needed, a commercial decorator should be contacted.

 SOUND: Additional sound equipment may be rented, including portable sound systems for Rooms B ; these require hiring a Seattle Center Sound Operator to be in attendance at the Event. Sound from Rooms A & H may be patched through ceiling speakers into Rooms B the hallways and the lobby. Tape players may be operated by the Licensee once they are installed by a Seattle Center Sound Operator.

 PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS: Additional Seattle Center staff may be required for sound operation or Admissions tasks. Each of these must be paid for a minimum of four hours.

 ACCESSIBILITY: Wheelchairs and strollers can access Center House from the East, West & South sides. There are elevators to the 3rd Floor. Meeting rooms and restrooms are wheelchair accessible. Assistive listening systems are installed and per the Americans With Disabilities Act, devices must be made available by you to your guests. At the time of giving your Event requirements to your ESR arrangements should be made to activate the system and have receivers available.

 FIRST AID AND INCIDENT REPORTING: The Emergency Services Unit administers First Aid and takes incident reports as needed.

 FISHER PAVILION

 Full Room A Fisher Pavilion

 Room Capacities:

 Theatre Style 1,800 1,200

 Classroom 788 500 Style 4 per table

 Classroom 591 375 Style 3 per table

 Banquets 1,200 800

 Characteristics

 Dimensions* 67'x263' 67'x171'

 Approx. Square 17,600 11,457 Footage

 Ceiling Height 20' 20'

 Floors Concrete Concrete

 Room Lighting Fluorescen Fluorescent t

 Included with License Fee

 Tables 8' x 6 4 30" **

 Chairs ** 1,800 1,200

 Parking Permit 1 0

 Projection 1 1 Table 2'x3'

 House Sound yes yes

 Microphones 5 4

 *See floor plan for variance for utility closets.

 **These tables and chairs are not available for use in

 areas set by a decorator.

 As available, U.S. and Washington State flags, easels, chalkboards, and both table & standing lecterns are provided at no charge with the facility rental.

 Banquet capacity is based on 10 guests per 6' round table. Banquet tables are included with the License Fee if the primary purpose of the rental is for a catered Event. No linen service is available. The charge for tables in excess of the number shown as included with the License Fee is $9.00 per 8' x 30" table, $9.00 per 6' round table.

 Classroom tables are 8' x 30" and may be rented at $9.00 per table for the run of the show. The tables which are included with the room rental can be supplied with white paper covers. Paper covers for additional tables are $2.00 each.

 For the safety of our guests, vehicular activity on the grounds is limited. Citations are issued to any vehicle which does not have a parking permit or 30 minute load/unload permit or which overstays the 30 minute limit. Discuss your need for access to the grounds with your Event Service Representative who will supply these permits where policy allows.

 ALL SEATTLE CENTER EQUIPMENT MUST BE SET UP AND OPERATED BY SEATTLE CENTER STAFF.

 SET-UPS: Facilities are cleaned prior to each Event and set according to the plan written by the Event Service Representative (ESR) assigned to your Event. This plan is based on the Event requirements which are due from you at least 15 days prior to the Event; additional charges apply if information is received later than this.

 One standard set-up per day is included with the license fee. Provision of an additional set-up on any day is subject to staff availability and additional labor charges.

 Exhibitors may carry in their own material and set up their exhibits. If porter service is needed, a commercial decorator should be contacted. There is a roll up door for loading access at the southwest corner which is 14.5' wide by 15.5' high. If this door is left open for Move-In or -Out, neither heating nor cooling will be supplied to the building.

 PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS: Depending on the nature of the Event, additional staff may be required. Sound or stage technicians may be needed to set up and remove equipment and to operate it during the Event. Admissions Guard(s) are required for traffic control during any time that an Event generates heavy vehicular activity. Other Admissions personnel may be required for Event security or crowd control, or as door attendants for dances. For some Events additional security in the form of Seattle Police or peer group security may be required. The numbers of such personnel and whether they may be hired through Seattle Center or from outside sources will be determined by your ESR based on union regulations and Seattle Center policy. See Personnel Rates Addendum for the rates which will be charged for these services.

 SOUND: Sound equipment in addition to the built-in system with ceiling speakers, is available for rental. Seattle Center Sound operators are required to operate all additional equipment we install except tape players. See Equipment Addendum for inventory and current prices.

 STAGE: Stage platforms are rented by the unit and are available in various heights: 10.5", 16", 24", 32" and 48". Units are 4'x 8' or 6'x 8'. See Equipment Addendum. Stage technicians may be required if there are banners to be hung either inside or in front of the building. Theatrical lighting must be ground supported. The ceiling is not weight bearing and supports no rigging.

 ELECTRICAL: 120V outlets are located on perimeter walls.

 Additional power available:

 (2) 200A - 3P, 120/208V services in a utility closet

 (7) 50A - 1P, 120/208V services in floor pods

 All services are accessed through a power distribution terminal. Any electrical hook-ups must be done by a Washington State licensed electrician approved by Seattle Center and the work must comply with City of Seattle Department of Construction and Land Use Codes.

 FLOOR RESTRICTIONS:

 Floor Loading Guide:

 Traffic Load: Max Vehicle Weight: 10,000#

 Max Single Axle Limit 8,000#

 Max Single Wheel Limit 4,000#

 Static Load: Maximum distributed uniformly over not less than 4'x4' area 500#/sq. ft.

 SIGNS AND POSTERS: The south wall (the long wall) has a fabric portion in which tacks or pins (but not staples or tape) may be used. Nothing may be hung on finished wood, painted surfaces or windows by means of tape, tacks, nails, staples or mastic. Banners may be hung outside the North face of the Fisher Pavilion on a pre-hung wire. These and any banners placed on an inside wall which require a ladder or lifting device must be hung by Seattle Center stage personnel.

 There are two lighted readerboards on the north side (front) of the building that are included with the rental of the Facility on the days for which you have rented it, or if no other Licensee is using the Facility and the readerboard is available, on immediately preceding days. These each have five lines and hold 14 characters per line.

 ACCESSIBILITY: The Flag Pavilion is wheelchair and stroller accessible at all entry doors on the north side of the building. There are wheelchair accessible restrooms at the west end of the Facility.

 An assistive listening system is installed. To comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, you must make this available to your guests. Arrange with your ESR in advance of the Event to activate the system and have receivers available. Either a Seattle Center sound system must be in use or a feed from an outside system must be provided in order to activate the Assistive Listening System. The system is a single channel radio frequency system.

 Receivers are signed out by your guests at the Customer Service Desk (open 7:00am-11:00pm daily) at which they will be asked to leave a picture ID such as a driver's license. This will be exchanged for the returned receiver after the Event. Alternatively, you may make arrangements in advance with your ESR to pick up receivers for use by your guests. Use the white courtesy phone at the northwest end of the room next to the office, to request additional receivers if you underestimate the number needed.

 FIRST AID AND INCIDENT REPORTING: The Emergency Services Unit administers First Aid and takes incident reports. Contact the Customer Service Desk by means of the white courtesy phone in the office at the west end of the building to report all incidents. They will radio an Emergency Services Unit officer.

 SEATTLE CENTER PAVILION

 Room A Room B

 Est. Room Capacities:

 Theatre Style 800 450

 Classroom 448 248 Style, 4 per table

 Classroom 336 186 Style, 3 per table

 Banquets 500 300

 Characteristics

 Dimensions 147' x 57' 78' x 68'

 Approx. Square 8,379 5,304 Footage

 Ceiling Height 15'-8" to 15'-8" 20'-0"

 Floors Tile Concrete

 Room Lighting Flourescent Flourescen & Track t & Track

 Included with License Fee

 Tables 8' x 5 4 30" *

 Chairs * Max Set Max Set

 Projection 1 1 Table 2'x3'

 House Sound yes yes (via. (via. portable portable speaker speaker system) system)

 Microphones 5 4

 Portable Walls 24 None (10'x10')

 *These tables and chairs are not available for use in

 areas set by a decorator.

 As available, U.S. and Washington State flags, easels, chalkboards, and both table & standing lecterns are provided at no charge with the facility rental.

 Banquet capacity is based on 10 guests per 6' round table. Banquet tables are included with the License Fee if the primary purpose of the rental is for a catered Event. No linen service is available. The charge for tables in excess of the number shown as included with the License Fee is $9.00 per 8' x 30" table, $9.00 per 6' round table.

 For the safety of our guests, vehicular activity on the grounds is limited. Citations are issued to any vehicle which does not have a parking permit or 30 minute load/unload permit or which overstays the 30 minute limit. Discuss your need for access to the grounds with your Event Service Representative, who will supply these permits where policy allows.

 ALL SEATTLE CENTER EQUIPMENT MUST BE SET UP AND OPERATED BY SEATTLE CENTER STAFF.

 SET-UPS: Facilities are cleaned prior to each Event and set according to the plan written by the Event Service Representative (ESR) assigned to your Event. This plan is based on the Event requirements which are due from you at least 15 days prior to the Event; additional charges apply if information is received later than this.

 One standard set-up per day is included with the license fee. Provision of an additional set-up on any day is subject to staff availability and additional labor charges.

 Exhibitors may carry in their own material and set up their exhibits. If porter service is needed, a commercial decorator should be contacted.

 PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS: Depending on the nature of the Event, additional staff may be required. Sound or stage technicians may be needed to set up and remove equipment and to operate it during the Event. Admissions Guard(s) are required for traffic control during any time that an Event generates heavy vehicular activity. Other Admissions personnel may be required for Event security or crowd control, or as door attendants for dances. For some Events additional security in the form of Seattle Police or peer group security may be required. The numbers of such personnel and whether they may be hired through Seattle Center or from outside sources will be determined by your ESR based on union regulations and Seattle Center policy. See Personnel Rates Addendum for the rates which will be charged for these services.

 SOUND: Portable sound equipment is available. Seattle Center Sound operators are required to operate all equipment we install, except tape and cd players. See Equipment Addendum for inventory and current prices.

 STAGE: Stage platforms are rented by the unit and are available in various heights: 8", 16", 24", 32" and 48". Units are 4'x 8' or 6'x 8'. See Equipment Addendum. Stage technicians may be required if there are banners to be hung either inside or in front of the building. Theatrical lighting must be ground supported. The ceiling is not weight bearing and supports no rigging.

 ELECTRICAL: 120V outlets are located on perimeter walls.

 Additional power available:

 (1) 200A 3P, 120/208V (Service is in panel room located in Seattle Center Pavilion Room B)

 All services are accessed through a power distribution terminal. Any electrical hook-ups must be done by a Washington State licensed electrician approved by Seattle Center and the work must comply with City of Seattle Department of Construction and Land Use Codes.

 FLOOR RESTRICTIONS: For protection of the tile floors, only certain types of tape are permitted. See your ESR for a list of acceptable tapes.

 Floor Loading Guide:

 Traffic Load: Max. Vehicle Weight: 5,000#

 Max. Single Axle Limit 4,000#

 Max. Single Wheel Limit 2,000#

 Static Load: Maximum distributed uniformly over not less than 4'x4' area 250#/sq ft

 Load limits refer to pneumatic tired equipment only. Steel tread wheeled dollies are not allowed.

 All steel scaffolding and display supports must have foot pads under the vertical posts.

 SIGNS AND POSTERS: Nothing may be hung on finished wood, painted surfaces or windows by means of tape, tacks, nails, staples or mastic.

 There is one lighted Reader board on the east side of the building that is included with the rental of the Facility* on the days for which you have rented it, or if no other Licensee is using the Facility and the readerboard is available, on immediately preceding days. This Readerboard has two lines and holds 14 characters per line.

 * Reader board is included when Licensee rents both Seattle Center Pavilion A & B. If both Seattle Center Pavilion A & B are rented by different Licensees, then the reader board is made available for Seattle Center Pavilion Room A. If Seattle Center Pavilion B is rented and Seattle Center Pavilion Room A is vacant, then the reader board is made available for Seattle Center Pavilion Room B.

 ACCESSIBILITY: The Seattle Center Pavilion is wheelchair and stroller accessible at all entry doors. There are wheelchair accessible restrooms in the lobby.

 An assistive listening system is available for temporary installation. Per the Americans with Disabilities Act, you must make this available to your guests. Arrangements must be made with your ESR in advance of the Event to have the system installed and activated and receivers available. In order to activate the Assistive Listening System either a Seattle Center sound system must be in use or a feed provided from an outside system. The system is a single channel infrared system.

 Receivers are signed out by your guests at the Customer Service Desk (open 7:00am-11:00pm daily) at which they will be asked to leave a picture ID such as a driver's license. This will be exchanged for the returned receiver after the Event. Alternatively, you may make arrangements in advance with your ESR to pick up receivers for use by your guests. Use the white courtesy phone located on the back wall of the coat rack(between the restroom entries) to request additional receivers if you underestimate the number needed.

 FIRST AID AND INCIDENT REPORTING: The Emergency Services Unit administers First Aid and takes incident reports. Contact the Customer Service Desk by means of the white courtesy phone to report all incidents. They will radio an Emergency Services officer.

 Pride Exhibit B.doc Exhibit B to Att. 1 to Pride Festival Ordinance

 1 of 7

 March 18, 2006

 EXHIBIT C TO SEATTLE PRIDE FESTIVAL AGREEMENT

 SEATTLE PRIDE FESTIVAL

 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS

 Before undertaking any work under this Agreement, Licensee shall obtain and shall thereafter maintain continuously at all times during the term hereof, obtain and maintain continuously, at no expense to the City, evidence of a policy or policies of insurance as enumerated below.

 1. Insurance Coverage: A. Commercial General Liability Insurance: A policy of commercial general liability insurance, written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form (CG 00 01), including all the usual coverages known as:

 - Premises/Operations Liability

 - Products/Completed Operations

 - Personal/Advertising Injury

 - Contractual Liability

 - Independent Contractors Liability

 - Stop Gap or Employers Contingent Liability

 - Fire Damage Legal

 - Liquor Liability

 - Per event aggregate.

 Such policy or policies must provide the following minimum coverage:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage

 $2,000,000 General Aggregate

 $2,000,000 Products & Completed Operations Aggregate

 $1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury

 $1,000,000 Each Occurrence

 $ 100,000 Fire Damage

 Stop Gap/Employers Liability:

 $1,000,000 Each Accident

 $1,000,000 Disease - Policy Limit

 $1,000,000 Disease - Each Employee

 Each policy shall be endorsed (by a blanket endorsement or otherwise) to include The City of Seattle, its employees and agents as additional insureds; shall include a "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests" clause, indicating essentially that, except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, the insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought; and shall provide that its limits of liability shall not be cancelled without forty-five (45) calendar days prior written notice to the City, except for cases of non- payment of premiums, in which case prior notice shall not be less than ten (10) calendar days. In addition, Licensee's insurance shall be primary and non-contributory to any coverage maintained by the City. The limits of such insurance shall not, however, limit the liability of Licensee hereunder. Licensee shall promptly notify the City when it becomes aware of any material reduction in the aggregate limits of any insurance coverage required under this Agreement.

 B. Business Automobile Liability Insurance: A policy of Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for owned, non- owned, leased or hired vehicles written on an insurance industry standard form (CA 00 01) or equivalent.

 Such policy or policies must provide the following minimum limit:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage -

 $ 1,000,000 per accident

 C. Excess Insurance: A policy of Excess Insurance above the primary general liability and Business Auto Liability policies that will provide a total limit of insurance of $2,000,000. The excess policy must be at a minimum as broad as the primary policies.

 D. Property Insurance: For so long as this Agreement shall be in effect and Licensee occupies the Office Space, Licensee shall secure and maintain, at no cost or expense to the City, one or more policies of Property Insurance covering Licensee's furniture, fixtures, equipment and all other improvements, written on an "All Risk" basis in an amount equal to replacement cost thereof. Such insurance shall protect against (a) loss from the perils of fire and other risks of direct physical loss (including earthquake and flood damage), not less broad than provided by the insurance industry standard "Causes of Loss - Special Form (CP 10 30)"; and (b) loss or damage from water damage or sprinkler systems now or hereafter installed in or about the building in which the Office Space is located. Under such insurance, any loss payment shall be made payable to the City, which shall hold the same in trust for the rebuilding, repairing, replacing or restoring of the Office Space, including all improvements, additions and alterations thereto.

 E. Worker's Compensation: Worker's Compensation as required by applicable state law in the jurisdictions in which Licensee is doing business.

 2. Claims Made Form and Deductibles: If any insurance policy is issued on a "claims made" basis, the retroactive date shall be prior to or coincident with the effective date of this Agreement. The policy shall state that coverage is "claims made," and state the retroactive date. The Licensee shall either maintain "claims made" forms coverage for a minimum of three years following the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, providing the City with a Renewal Certificate of Insurance annually; purchase an extended reporting period ("tail"); or execute another form of guarantee acceptable to the City to assure financial responsibility for liability for services performed.

 Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed on the required certificate and is subject to approval by the City. The cost of any claim payments falling within the deductible shall be the responsibility of Licensee.

 3. Evidence of Insurance: Licensee shall provide the City's Risk Manager and the Director with the following documents as evidence of insurance coverage:

 * A copy of the policy's declarations pages, showing the Insuring Company, policy effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements.

 * A copy of the endorsement naming The City of Seattle as an Additional Insured, showing the policy number, and signed by an authorized representative of the insurance company on Form CG2026 (ISO) or comparable.

 * A copy of the "Endorsements Form List" to the policy or policies showing endorsements issued on the policy, and including any company- specific or manuscript endorsements.

 * A copy of an endorsement stating that the coverage provided by this policy to the City, or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing at least forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City of Seattle.

 * A copy of A "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests" clause (if not provided on CG0001 form, indicating essentially that - except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, this insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought (Commercial General Liability & Business Automobile Liability Insurance). The City reserves the right to obtain a copy of any policy required by this Agreement, including all forms and endorsements.

 4. Insurance Policy Rating: All policies shall be issued by a company rated A-: VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington (or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines broker), and shall be subject to approval by the City.

 5. Self-Insurance: If Licensee is self-insured for any of the risks for which insurance is required, it shall so indicate in a letter signed by an authorized person, indicating whether the self- insurance is actuarially funded and the fund limits, along with an original standard form Accord Certificate of Liability Insurance signed by a licensed insurance agent or broker authorized to do business in the State of Washington evidencing excess coverage required to meet the requirements of this Agreement. All self- insurance is subject to the City's prior approval and the City reserves the right to request documentation in addition to that stated in this paragraph to determine the acceptability of any self- insurance.

 6. Sub-Licensees: Licensee shall ensure that each of its sub-licensees names The City of Seattle, its employees and agents as additional insureds on any liability and property insurance maintained with regard to the project; and that all insurance policies shall be made available to the City for inspection upon request.

 Pride Exhibit C.doc Exhibit C to Att. 1 to Pride Festival Ordinance

 1 of 3

 March 18, 2006

```
