

********

**Council Bill Number: 115564**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122095**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to execute a lease from the United States Army Corps of Engineers for Fremont Canal Park.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 1, 2006
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Drago, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 9, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 3, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 24, 2006
   
**Committee:** Parks, Education, Libraries and Labor
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, FREMONT, ARMY, LAKE-WASHINGTON-SHIP-CANAL, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, PARKS

**Fiscal Note:**115564

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to execute a lease from the United States Army Corps of Engineers for Fremont Canal Park.

 WHEREAS, in 1978, Ordinance 107893 authorized the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into an agreement with the United State Army Corps of Engineers ("Corps") for assistance in developing a park along the Lake Washington Ship Canal; and

 WHEREAS, in 1980, under the terms of such agreement and in cooperation with the Corps, the City of Seattle ("City") developed real property, belonging to the United States of America, as Fremont Canal Park; and

 WHEREAS, such agreement included an initial 25-year term lease, identified by the Corps as DACW 67-1-80-36, which expired February 18, 2005; and

 WHEREAS, the Corps has offered the City a new lease for a term of 25 years for Fremont Canal Park; and

 WHEREAS, consideration for such lease shall be the City's continued operation and maintenance of Fremont Canal Park for the benefit of the United States and the general public; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to execute a lease, substantially as represented by Attachment A, attached hereto, for a term of 25 years for the following described property:

 A parcel of land in Section 13 of Township 25 North, Range 3 East, W.M., and in Section 18 of Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W.M., all in King County, Washington, being a strip of land approximately 15 feet in width, the northeasterly line of which is described as follows:

 Commencing at the most southerly corner of Block 1, Seattle Tidelands and running thence south 49 degrees 21'00" east 611.25 feet; thence south 49 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 49 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 49 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 49 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet to a brass cap set on said line; thence continuing along said line south 51 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 51 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 51 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of said 15-foot strip; thence continuing along said northeasterly line, south 51 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 51 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 51 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south

 52 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 54 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 54 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; to the terminus of said 15-foot strip.

 Contains 0.58 acre, more or less.

 Section 2. Any act pursuant to the authorization and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ________ day of ________________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _______ day of __________, 2006. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this _______ day of _____________, 2006. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment A: DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY LEASE TO NON-STATE GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES FOR PUBLIC PARK AND RECREATIONAL PURPOSES FREMONT CANAL PARK, NO. DACW67-1-05-63 Exhibits to Attachment A: Exhibit A - Lease Area Legal Description Exhibit B - Survey of Lease Area Exhibit C - City Report to USACE on Development Plan - March 2005 Exhibit D - Property Inspection Check List for Environmental Baseline Survey

 January 10, 2006 version #1

 Attachment A to Ordinance

 NO. DACW67-1-05-63

 DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY LEASE TO NON-STATE GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES

 FOR PUBLIC PARK AND RECREATIONAL PURPOSES

 FREMONT CANAL PARK

 LAKE WASHINGTON SHIP CANAL AND HIRAM M. CHITTENDEN LOCKS PROJECT KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON

 THIS LEASE is made on behalf of the United States, between the SECRETARY OF THE ARMY, hereinafter referred to as the Secretary, and CITY OF SEATTLE, DEPARTMENT OF PARKS & RECREATION, hereinafter referred to as the Lessee,

 WITNESSETH:

 That the Secretary, by authority of Title 16, United States Code, Section 460d, and for the consideration hereinafter set forth, hereby leases to the Lessee, the property identified and shown on EXHIBITS A & B, attached hereto and made a part hereof, hereinafter referred to as the Premises, for public park and recreational purposes as part of Fremont Canal Park, such property described as:

 A parcel of land in Section 13 of Township 25 North, Range 3 East, W.M., and in Section 18 of Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W.M., all in King County, Washington, being a strip of land approximately 15 feet in width, the northeasterly line of which is described as follows:

 Commencing at the most southerly corner of Block 1, Seattle Tidelands and running thence south 49 degrees 21'00" east 611.25 feet; thence south 49 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 49 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 49 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 49 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet to a brass cap set on said line; thence continuing along said line south 51 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 51 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 51 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of said 15-foot strip; thence continuing along said northeasterly line, south 51 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 51 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 51 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 54 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 54 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; to the terminus of said 15-foot strip.

 Contains 0.58 acre, more or less.

 THIS LEASE is granted subject to the following conditions:

 1. TERM

 Said premises are hereby leased for a term of twenty five (25) years, beginning February 19, 2005 and ending February 18, 2030, but revocable at will by the Secretary.

 2. CONSIDERATION

 The consideration for this lease is the operation and maintenance of the premises by the Lessee for the benefit of the United States and the general public in accordance with the conditions herein set forth.

 3. NOTICES

 All correspondence and notices to be given pursuant to this lease shall be addressed, if to the Lessee, to Seattle Department of Parks & Recreation, ATTN: Property Management, 800 Maynard Ave. S., 3rd Floor, Seattle, Washington 98134-1336, and, if to the United States, to the District Engineer, Seattle District Corps of Engineers, ATTN: Chief, Real Estate Division, Post Office Box 3755, Seattle, Washington 98124-3755, or as may from time to time otherwise be directed by the parties. Notice shall be deemed to have been duly given if and when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope, or wrapper, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, in a post office regularly maintained by the United States Postal Service.

 4. AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES

 Except as otherwise specifically provided, any reference herein to "Secretary of the Army," "District Engineer," "said officer", or "Lessor", shall include their duly authorized representatives. Any reference to "Lessee" shall include sub-lessees, assignees, transferees, concessionaires, and its duly authorized representatives.

 5. DEVELOPMENT PLANS

 The Lessee shall be guided by an annual Plan of Operation and Maintenance in furtherance of the Lessee's implementing Plan of Recreation Development and Management (Development Plan). The report on the current annual plan is attached as EXHIBIT C. It shows the facilities and services necessary to meet the current and potential public demand and the management and development activities to be undertaken by the Lessee and any sub-lessees. No later than March 1st of each year the Lessee will submit the annual Plan to be mutually agreed on between the Lessee and the District Engineer. Such annual Plan shall include but is not limited to the following:

 a. Plans for management, maintenance and development activities to be undertaken by the Lessee and any sub-lessees.

 b. Report of the management, maintenance and development accomplishments of the Lessee for the preceding year.

 c. Report on any significant modification of policies or procedures which are planned for the following year as well as those implemented in the preceding year.

 d. Minor modifications to the Development Plan. Major modifications are to be accomplished by amendment to the Plan before proceeding to implement any changes in the development or management of the leased premises.

 e. Budget of the Lessee for carrying out all activities for the upcoming year.

 f. Personnel to be used in the management of the leased premises.

 g. Annual certification that all water and sanitary systems on the premises have been inspected and comply with Federal, State and local standards. Lessee will also provide a statement of compliance with the Rehabilitations Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act, as required in the condition on NON-DISCRIMINATION, noting any deficiencies and providing a schedule for correction. The use and occupation of the premises shall be subject to the general supervision and approval of the District Engineer. During the term of the lease, the District Engineer will notify the Lessee of any updates to the existing project Master Plan affecting the premises and the Lessee may provide comments.

 6. STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT

 The Lessee shall have the right, during the term of the lease, to erect such structures and to provide such equipment upon the premises as may be necessary to furnish the facilities and services authorized. Those structures and equipment shall be and remain the property of the Lessee, except as otherwise provided in the Condition on RESTORATION. However, no structures may be erected or altered upon the premises unless and until the type of use, design, and proposed location or alteration thereof shall have been approved in writing by the District Engineer. The District Engineer may require the Lessee, upon the completion of each of the proposed developments to furnish complete "as built" construction plans for all facilities.

 7. APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS

 a. The Lessee shall comply with all applicable Federal Laws and Regulations and with all applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations of the state, county, and municipality wherein the premises are located, including, but not limited to, those regarding construction,

 health, safety, food service, water supply, sanitation, use of pesticides, and licenses or permits to do business. The Lessee shall make and enforce such regulations as are necessary and within its legal authority in exercising the privileges granted in this lease, provided that such regulations are not inconsistent with those issued by the Secretary of the Army or with the provisions of 16 U.S.C. 460d.

 b. The Lessee will provide an annual certification that all water and sanitary systems on the premises have been inspected and comply with Federal, state and local standards. The Lessee will also provide a statement of compliance with the Rehabilitations Act and the Americans with Disability Act, as required in the condition on NON-

 DISCRIMINATION, noting any deficiencies and providing a schedule for correction.

 8. CONDITION OF PREMISES

 a. The Lessee acknowledges that it has inspected the premises, knows its condition, and understands that the same is leased without any representations or warranties whatsoever and without obligation on the part of the United States to make any alterations, repairs, or additions thereto.

 b. As of the date of this lease, an inventory and condition report of all personal property and improvements of the United States included in this lease shall be made by the District Engineer and the Lessee to reflect the condition of said property and improvements. A copy of said report is attached hereto as Exhibit __N/A__ and made a part hereof. Upon the expiration, revocation, or termination of this lease, another inventory and condition report shall be similarly prepared. This report shall constitute the basis for settlement for property damaged or destroyed. Any such property must be either replaced or restored to the condition required by the Condition on PROTECTION OF PROPERTY.

 9. FACILITIES AND SERVICES

 The Lessee shall provide the facilities and services as agreed upon in the Development Plan referred to in the Condition on DEVELOPMENT PLANS either directly, or through subleases or concession agreements that have been reviewed and accepted by the District Engineer. These subleases or agreements shall state: (1) that they are granted subject to the provisions of this lease; and (2) that the agreement will not be effective until the third party activities have been approved by the District Engineer. The Lessee will not allow any third party activities with a rental to the Lessee or prices to the public which would give the third party an undue economic advantage or circumvent the intent of the Development Plan. The rates and prices charged by the Lessee or its sub-lessees or concessionaires shall be reasonable and comparable to rates charged for similar goods and services by others in the area. The use of sub-lessees and concessionaires will not relieve the Lessee from the primary responsibility for ensuring compliance with all of the terms and conditions of this lease.

 10. TRANSFERS, ASSIGNMENTS, SUBLEASES

 a. Without prior written approval of the District Engineer, the Lessee shall neither transfer nor assign this lease nor sublet the premises or any part thereof, nor grant any interest, privilege, or license whatsoever in connection with this lease.

 b. The Lessee will not sponsor or participate in timeshare ownership of any structures, facilities, accommodations, or personal property on the premises. The Lessee will not subdivide nor develop the premises into private residential development.

 11. FEES

 Fees may be charged by the Lessee for the entrance to or use of the premises or any facilities, however, no user fees may be charged by the Lessee or its sub-lessees for use of facilities developed in whole or part with federal funds if a user charge by the Corps of Engineers for the facility would be prohibited under law.

 12. ACCOUNTS, RECORDS AND RECEIPTS

 All monies received by the Lessee from operations conducted on the premises, including, but not limited to, entrance, admission and user fees and rental or other consideration received from its concessionaires, may be utilized by the Lessee for the administration, maintenance, operation and development of the premises. Beginning 5 years from the date of this lease and continuing at 5-year intervals, any such monies not so utilized or programmed for utilization within a reasonable time shall be paid to the District Engineer. The Lessee shall establish and maintain accurate records and accounts and provide an annual statement of receipts and expenditures to the District Engineer. Annual or weekly entrance fees not collected on the Project, which also are honored at other recreational areas operated by the Lessee, are excluded from this requirement. The District Engineer shall have the right to perform audits or to require the Lessee to audit the records and accounts of the Lessee, third party concessionaires and sub-lessees, in accordance with auditing standards and procedures promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants or by the state, and furnish the District Engineer with the results of such an audit.

 13. PROTECTION OF PROPERTY

 The Lessee shall be responsible for any damage that may be caused to property of the United States by the activities of the Lessee under this lease and shall exercise due diligence in the protection of all property located on the premises against fire or damage from any and all other causes. Any property of the United States damaged or destroyed by the Lessee incident to the exercise of the privileges herein granted shall be promptly repaired or replaced by the Lessee to the satisfaction of the District Engineer, or, at the election of the District Engineer, reimbursement may be made therefore by the Lessee in an amount necessary to restore or replace the property to a condition satisfactory to the District Engineer.

 14. RIGHT TO ENTER AND FLOOD

 The right is reserved to the United States, its officers, agents, and employees to enter upon the premises at any time and for any purpose necessary or convenient in connection with Government purposes; to make inspections; to remove timber or other material, except property of the Lessee; to flood the premises; to manipulate the level of the lake or pool in any manner whatsoever; and/or to make any other use of the land as may be necessary in connection with project purposes, and the Lessee shall have no claim for damages on account thereof against the United States or any officer, agent, or employee thereof.

 15. LIGHTS, SIGNALS AND NAVIGATION

 There shall be no unreasonable interference with navigation by the exercise of the privileges granted by this lease. If the display of lights and signals on any work hereby authorized is not otherwise provided for by law, such lights and signals as may be prescribed by the Coast Guard or by the District Engineer shall be installed and maintained by and at the expense of the Lessee.

 16. INSURANCE

 a. At the commencement of this lease, the Lessee, unless self- insured, and its sub-lessees and concessionaires at the commencement of operating under the terms of this lease as third parties, shall obtain from a reputable insurance company or companies contracts of liability insurance. The insurance shall provide an amount not less than that which is prudent, reasonable and consistent with sound business practices or a minimum Combined Single Limit of $500,000.00, whichever is greater, for any number of persons or claims arising from any one incident with respect to bodily injuries or death resulting therefrom, property damage, or both, suffered or alleged to have been suffered by any person or persons, resulting from the operations of the Lessee, sub-lessees and concessionaires under the terms of this lease. The Lessee shall require its insurance company to furnish to the District Engineer a copy of the policy or policies, or, if acceptable to the District Engineer, certificates of insurance evidencing the purchase of such insurance. The District Engineer shall have the right to review and revise the amount of minimum liability insurance required.

 b. The insurance policy or policies shall specifically provide protection appropriate for the types of facilities, services and products involved; and shall provide that the District Engineer be given thirty (30) days notice of any cancellation or change in such insurance.

 c. In the event the Lessee is self-insured, the Lessee shall certify such self-insurance in writing in the minimum amount specified above to the District Engineer. The Lessee's insurance status shall not eliminate the requirement for its sub-lessees and concessionaires to have insurance from a reputable insurance carrier as set out above.

 d. The District Engineer may require closure of any or all of the premises during any period for which the Lessee and/or its sub- lessees and concessionaires do not have the required insurance coverage.

 17. RESTORATION

 On or before the expiration of this lease or its termination by the Lessee, the Lessee shall vacate the premises, remove the property of the Lessee, and restore the premises to a condition satisfactory to the District Engineer. If, however, this lease is revoked, the Lessee shall vacate the premises, remove said property therefrom, and restore the premises to the aforesaid condition within such time as the District Engineer may designate. In either event, if the Lessee shall fail or neglect to remove said property and restore the premises, then, at the option of the District Engineer, said property shall either become the property of the United States without compensation therefore, or the District Engineer may cause the property to be removed and no claim for damages against the United States or its officers or agents shall be created by or made on account of such removal and restoration work. The Lessee shall also pay the United States on demand any sum which may be expended by the United States after the expiration, revocation, or termination of this lease in restoring the premises.

 18. NON-DISCRIMINATION

 a. The Lessee shall not discriminate against any person or persons or exclude them from participation in the Lessee's operations, programs or activities conducted on the leased premises, because of race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, or national origin. The Lessee will comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and attendant Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG) published by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.

 b. The Lessee, by acceptance of this lease, is receiving a type of Federal assistance and, therefore, hereby gives assurance that it will comply with the provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. section 2000d); the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. section 6102); the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. section 794); and all requirements imposed by or pursuant to the Directive of the Department of Defense (32 CFR Part 300) issued as Department of Defense Directives 5500.11 and 1020.1, and Army Regulation 600-7. This assurance shall be binding on the Lessee, its agents, successors, transferees, sub-lessees and assignees.

 19. SUBJECT TO EASEMENTS

 This lease is subject to all existing easements, easements subsequently granted, and established access routes for roadways and utilities located, or to be located, on the premises, provided that the proposed grant of any new easement or route will be coordinated with the Lessee, and easements will not be granted which will, in the opinion of the District Engineer, interfere with developments, present or proposed, by the Lessee. The Lessee will not close any established access routes without written permission of the District Engineer.

 20. SUBJECT TO MINERAL INTERESTS

 This lease is subject to all outstanding mineral interests. As to federally owned mineral interests, it is understood that they may be included in present or future mineral leases issued by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), which has responsibility for mineral development on Federal lands. The Secretary will provide lease stipulations to BLM for inclusion in such mineral leases that are designed to protect the premises from activities that would interfere with the Lessee's operations or would be contrary to local laws.

 21. COMPLIANCE, CLOSURE, REVOCATION AND RELINQUISHMENT

 a. The Lessee and/or any sub-lessees or licensees are charged at all times with full knowledge of all the limitations and requirements of this lease, and the necessity for correction of deficiencies, and with compliance with reasonable requests by the District Engineer. This lease may be revoked in the event that the Lessee violates any of the terms and conditions and continues and persists in such non- compliance, or fails to obtain correction of deficiencies by sub- lessees or licensees. The Lessee will be notified of any non- compliance, which notice shall be in writing or shall be confirmed in writing, giving a period of time in which to correct the non- compliance. Failure to satisfactorily correct any substantial or persistent non-compliance within the specified time is grounds for

 closure of all or part of the premises, temporary suspension of operation, or revocation of the lease, after notice in writing of such intent. Future requests by the Lessee to extend the lease, expand the premises, modify authorized activities, or assign the lease shall take into consideration the Lessee's past performance and compliance with the lease terms.

 b. This lease may be relinquished by the Lessee by giving one (1) year prior written notice to the District Engineer in the manner prescribed in the Condition on NOTICES.

 22. HEALTH AND SAFETY

 a. The Lessee shall keep the premises in good order and in a clean, sanitary, and safe condition and shall have the primary responsibility for ensuring that any sub-lessees and concessionaires operate and maintain the premises in such a manner.

 b. In addition to the rights of revocation for non-compliance, the District Engineer, upon discovery of any hazardous conditions on the premises that presents an immediate threat to health and/or danger to life or property, will so notify the Lessee and will require that the affected part or all of the premises be closed to the public until such condition is corrected and the danger to the public eliminated. If the condition is not corrected within the time specified, the District Engineer will have the option to: (1) correct the hazardous conditions and collect the cost of repairs from the Lessee; or, (2) revoke the lease. The Lessee and its assignees or sub-lessees shall have no claim for damages against the United States, or any officer, agent, or employee thereof on account of action taken pursuant to this condition.

 23. PUBLIC USE

 No attempt shall be made by the Lessee, or any of its sub-lessees or concessionaires, to forbid the full use by the public of the premises and of the water areas of the project, subject, however, to the authority and responsibility of the Lessee to manage the premises and provide safety and security to the visiting public.

 24. PROHIBITED USES

 a. The Lessee shall not permit gambling on the premises or install or operate, or permit to be installed or operated thereon, any device which is illegal, or use the premises or permit them to be used for

 any illegal business or purpose. There shall not be conducted on or permitted upon the premises any activity which would constitute a nuisance.

 b. As an exception, some games of chance, such as raffles, games and sporting events, may be conducted by nonprofit organizations under special use permits issued in conjunction with special events, if permissible by state and local law. Any request to conduct such activities must be submitted in writing to the District Engineer.

 c. In accordance with state and local laws and regulations, the Lessee may sell, store, or dispense, or permit the sale, storage, or dispensing of beer, malt beverages, light wines or other intoxicating beverages on the premises in those facilities where such service is customarily found. Bar facilities will only be permitted if offered in connection with other approved activities. Advertising of such beverages outside of buildings is not permitted. Carry out package sales of hard liquor is prohibited.

 25. NATURAL RESOURCES

 The Lessee shall cut no timber, conduct no mining operations, remove no sand, gravel, or kindred substances from the ground, commit no waste of any kind, nor in any manner substantially change the contour or condition of the premises, except as may be authorized under and pursuant to the Development Plan described in the Condition on DEVELOPMENT PLANS herein. The Lessee may salvage fallen or dead timber; however, no commercial use shall be made of such timber. Except for timber salvaged by the Lessee when in the way of construction of improvements or other facilities, all sales of forest products will be conducted by the United States and the proceeds therefrom shall not be available to the Lessee under the provisions of this lease.

 26. DISPUTES CLAUSE

 a. Except as provided in the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 601-613) (the Act), all disputes arising under or relating to this lease shall be resolved under this clause and the provisions of the Act.

 b. "Claim," as used in this clause, means a written demand or written assertion by the Lessee seeking, as a matter of right, the payment of money in a sum certain, the adjustment of interpretation of lease terms, or other relief arising under or relating to this lease. A claim arising under this lease, unlike a claim relating to that lease, is a claim that can be resolved under a lease clause that provides for the relief sought by the Lessee. However, a written demand or written assertion by the Lessee seeking the payment of money exceeding $100,000 is not a claim under the Act until certified as required by subparagraph c.(2) below.

 c. (1) A claim by the Lessee shall be made in writing and submitted to the District Engineer for a written decision. A claim by the Government against the Lessee shall be subject to a written decision by the District Engineer.

 (2) For Lessee claims exceeding $100,000, the Lessee shall submit with the claim a certification that:

 (i) The claim is made in good faith;

 (ii) Supporting data are accurate and complete to the best to the Lessee's knowledge and belief; and

 (iii) The amount requested accurately reflects the lease adjustment for which the Lessee believes the Government is liable.

 (3) If the Lessee is an individual, the certificate shall be executed by that individual. If the Lessee is not an individual, the certification shall be executed by:

 (i) A senior company official in charge at the Lessee's location involved; or

 (ii) An officer or general partner of the Lessee having overall responsibility of the conduct of the Lessee's affairs.

 d. For Lessee claims of $100,000 or less, the District Engineer must, if requested in writing by the Lessee, render a decision within 60 days of the request. For Lessee-certified claims over $100,000, the District Engineer must, within 60 days, decide the claim or notify the Lessee of the date by which the decision will be made.

 e. The District Engineer's decision shall be final unless the Lessee appeals or files a suit as provided in the Act.

 f. At the time a claim by the Lessee is submitted to the District Engineer or a claim by the Government is presented to the Lessee, the parties, by mutual consent, may agree to use alternative means of dispute resolution. When using alternate dispute resolution procedures, any claim, regardless of amount, shall be accompanied by the certificate described in paragraph c.(2) of this clause, and executed in accordance with paragraph c.(3) of this clause.

 g. The Government shall pay interest on the amount found due and unpaid by the Government from (1) the date the District Engineer received the claim (properly certified if required), or (2) the date payment otherwise would be due, if that date is later, until the date of payment. Simple interest on claims shall be paid at the rate, fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury, as provided in the Act, which is applicable to the period during which the District Engineer receives the claim, and then at the rate applicable for each 6-month period as fixed by the Treasury Secretary during the pendency of the claim.

 h. The Lessee shall proceed diligently with the performance of the lease, pending final resolution of any request for relief, claim, appeal, or action arising under the lease, and comply with any decision of the District Engineer.

 27. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

 a. Within the limits of their respective legal powers, the parties to this lease shall protect the project against pollution of its air, ground, and water. The Lessee shall comply promptly with any laws, regulations, conditions or instructions affecting the activity hereby authorized, if and when issued by the Environmental Protection Agency, or any Federal, state, interstate or local governmental agency having jurisdiction to abate or prevent pollution. The disposal of any toxic or hazardous materials within the leased area is specifically prohibited. Such regulations, conditions, or instructions in effect or prescribed by the Environmental Protection Agency, or any Federal, state, interstate or local governmental agency, are hereby made a condition of this lease. The Lessee shall require all sanitation facilities on boats moored at the Lessee's facilities, including rental boats, to be sealed against any discharge into the lake. Services for waste disposal, including sewage pump-out of watercraft, shall be provided by the Lessee as appropriate. The Lessee shall not discharge waste or effluent from the premises in such a manner that the discharge will contaminate streams or other bodies of water, or otherwise become a public nuisance.

 b. The Lessee will use all reasonable means available to protect the environment and natural resources, and where damage nonetheless occurs from the lessee's activities, the Lessee shall be liable to restore the damaged resources.

 c. The Lessee must obtain approval in writing from the District Engineer before any pesticides or herbicides are applied to the premises.

 28. PRELIMINARY ASSESSMENT SCREENING

 A Preliminary Assessment Screening (PAS) documenting the known history of the property with regard to the storage, release or disposal of hazardous substances was conducted. The findings of that screening are attached hereto, identified as PROPERTY INSPECTION CHECK LIST for Environmental Baseline Survey, and made a part hereof as EXHIBIT D. Upon expiration, revocation or termination of this lease, another PAS shall be prepared which will document the environmental condition of the property at that time. A comparison of the two assessments will assist the District Engineer in determining any environmental restoration requirements. Any such requirements will be completed by the lessee in accordance with the condition on RESTORATION.

 29. HISTORIC PRESERVATION

 The Lessee shall not remove or disturb, or cause or permit to be removed or disturbed, any historical, archaeological, architectural or other cultural artifacts, relics, remains, or objects of antiquity. In the event such items are discovered on the premises, the Lessee shall immediately notify the District Engineer and protect the site and the material from further disturbance until the District Engineer gives clearance to proceed.

 30. SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION

 The Lessee shall maintain in a manner satisfactory to the District Engineer, all soil and water conservation structures that may be in existence upon said premises at the beginning of, or that may be constructed by the Lessee during the term of, this lease, and the Lessee shall take appropriate measures to prevent or control soil erosion within the premises. Any soil erosion occurring outside the premises resulting from the activities of the Lessee shall be corrected by the Lessee as directed by the District Engineer.

 31. TRANSIENT USE

 a. Camping, including transient trailers or recreational vehicles, at one or more campsites for a period longer than thirty (30) days during any sixty (60) consecutive day period is prohibited. The Lessee will maintain a ledger and reservation system for the use of any such campsites.

 b. Occupying any lands, buildings, vessels or other facilities within the premises for the purpose of maintaining a full- or part-time residence is prohibited, except for employees residing on the premises for security purposes, if authorized by the District Engineer.

 32. COVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES

 The Lessee warrants that no person or selling agency has been employed or retained to solicit or secure this lease upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee, excepting bona fide employees or bona fide established commercial or selling agencies maintained by the Lessee for the purpose of securing business. For breach or violation of this warranty, the United States shall have the right to annul this lease without liability or, in its discretion, to require the Lessee to pay, in addition to the lease rental or consideration, the full amount of such commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee.

 33. OFFICIALS NOT TO BENEFIT

 No Member of or Delegate to Congress or Resident Commissioner shall be admitted to any share or part of this lease or to any benefits to arise therefrom. However, nothing herein contained shall be construed to extend to any incorporated company if the lease be for the general benefit of such corporation or company.

 34. MODIFICATIONS

 This lease contains the entire agreement between the parties hereto, and no modification of this agreement, or waiver, or consent hereunder shall be valid unless the same be in writing, signed by the parties to be bound or by a duly authorized representative; and this provision shall apply to this clause as well as all other conditions of this lease.

 35. DISCLAIMER

 This lease is effective only insofar as the rights of the United States in the premises are concerned; and the Lessee shall obtain such permission as may be required on account of any other existing rights. It is understood that the granting of this lease does not eliminate the necessity of obtaining any Department of the Army permit which may be required pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 3 March 1899 (30 Stat. 1151; 33 U.S.C. 403), or Section 404 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1344).

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand by authority/direction of the Secretary of the Army this ____________________day of ____________________ , 2006.

 ___________________________ JOSEPH C. DUNCAN Chief, Real Estate Division Seattle District, Corps of Engineers

 THIS LEASE is also executed by the Lessee this ___________________ day of _____________________, 2006.

 CITY OF SEATTLE DEPT. OF PARKS & RECREATION ______________________________ (Signature) ______________________________ (Title) ______________________________ (Phone No.)

 Exhibit "A" to Lease: LAKE WASHINGTON SHIP CANAL LEASE FOR PUBLIC PARK AND RECREATIONAL PURPOSES

 DACW 67-1-05-63 CITY OF SEATTLE

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION A parcel of land in Section 13 of Township 25 North, Range 3 East, W.M., and in Section 18 of Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W.M., all in King County, Washington, being a strip of land approximately 15 feet in width, the northeasterly line of which is described as follows:

 Commencing at the most southerly corner of Block 1, Seattle Tidelands and running thence south 49 degrees 21'00" east 611.25 feet; thence south 49 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 49 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 49 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 49 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 50 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet to a brass cap set on said line; thence continuing along said line south 51 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 51 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 51 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of said 15-foot strip; thence continuing along said northeasterly line, south 51 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 51 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 51 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 52 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 26'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 36'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 46'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 53 degrees 56'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 54 degrees 06'00" east 99.564 feet; thence south 54 degrees 16'00" east 99.564 feet; to the terminus of said 15-foot strip.

 Contains 0.58 acre, more or less.

[Exhibit B to Attachment A: Survey of Lease Area](/~ordpics/115564AtAExB.jpg)

 Exhibit "C" to Lease

 Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation Report to U.S. Army Corps of Engineers concerning DEVELOPMENT PLAN for FREMONT CANAL PARK March 2005

 Fremont Canal Park is located along the north side of the Lake Washington Ship Canal, from approximately Phinney Avenue North westerly to 3rd Avenue NW. It is addressed as 199 North Canal Street. The park is primarily a strip of land approximately 15 feet wide, running along the ship canal, totaling .69 acres. It is leased from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under lease #DACW 67-1-80-36, for 25 years beginning 02/19/1980, as authorized by Ordinance 107893. (A renewal lease for another 25-year term will be executed by the City upon authorization by a new ordinance.) [N.B.: the renewal lease will correct the total acreage to .58 acres to accurately reflect the improved park area leased from the Corps]

 The park was planned and constructed in 1979-81, as a cooperative effort between the Corps of Engineers and Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation. Improvements included a viewing platform, shelter, benches, trees and shrubs. In 1992-93 the City extended the Burke- Gilman Trail, a popular bicycle and pedestrian path created in former railroad right-of-way, expanding the park and recreation facility at this location. As part of the expansion, numerous additional trees and shrubs were planted and an automatic irrigation system was installed.

 Fremont Canal Park is maintained as a high visibility public park space, serving as both a neighborhood amenity and a tourist attraction, offering excellent views of boating activity along the canal. It also provides a community gathering space, notably for the annual Fremont Summer Solstice Fair celebrated in June and drawing over 100,000 attendees.

 Considerable attention has been given by the City to this park during the past six (6) years, including several landscape renovation and upgrade projects. In 2002 a Community Development Block Grant funded a $15,000 landscape replacement project at the west end of the Park. In March 2002, the old, deteriorated gravel path at the top of the slope was regraded and resurfaced with crushed rock. The park has also benefited from numerous large volunteer projects which occur several times per year.

 Routine maintenance activities consume approximately 600 staff hours per year, allocated through Parks' geographic division/district work assignments. Fremont Canal Park is located in the Northwest District of the Densmore unit of the Parks Operations Division. Routine grounds maintenance work includes daily litter pick-up and trash removal, weekly mowing, trimming, and edging; tree and shrub bed maintenance, as needed; and on-going irrigation system maintenance and irrigation, except when suspended or cutback due to water conservation directives.

 Future improvement projects at Fremont Canal Park are expected to include turf improvements, landscape enhancement, and additional benches and other infrastructure. The park has received some private foundation financial and volunteer support in the past and may be considered for additional grant funds.

 Exhibit "D" to Lease

 SEATTLE DISTRICT CORPS OF ENGINEERS REAL ESTATE DIVISION PROPERTY INSPECTION CHECK LIST

 FOR

 Environmental Baseline Survey

 Project Name: Lake Washington Ship Canal Project, Fremont Cut, Outgrant Unit 11

 Proposed Realty Action: Renewal of lease for City Park

 Applicant's name: City Of Seattle

 Legal Description: Sec13 T25N R3E and Sec18 T25N R4E in King Co, Seattle, W A

 Government Tract No: Tract # 000006

 Estimated Acreage: 0.58 acres

 Property Use (Check all that apply): Residential Industrial Mixed Agricultural Commercial Other: Park

 Adjacent Property Use: North: Park including the Burke-Gilman Trail South: Open water, Ship canal West: Park East: Park

 Site Ownership History: USACE has owned this site since August 19, 1899.

 Current Owner: USACE

 Previous Owner: King County

 Primary Use: Fremont Canal Park

 Source of Ownership Data: USACE Real Estate Division

 Features/Comments: The park is a strip of land, approximately 15 feet wide, that borders the ship canal.

 Number and Type of Buildings or other Structures on Property: Vault for a storm water outfall at 2nd Avenue.

 Is there any circumstances associated with the site's or adjacent site's history that may indicate a potential for hazardous substance contamination? Consider such factors as: (1) was the site used for industrial manufacturing, refining or processing; (2) regulatory history; any citations from local, state or federal agencies; (3) any reported accidents or chemical spills; (4) proximity of closest National Priorities List (Superfund) cleanup site; and (5) proximity of closest Washington State Model Toxics Control Act (MTCA) Site. Yes X No

 B. Site Inspection

 1. Environmental Conditions Observed:

 No Yes

 X Suspicious/Unusual Odors:

 X Discolored Soil or Waste:

 X Discolored Water:

 X Distressed/Dead/Unusual/Lack of-

 Vegetation:

 X Abnormal Mounding

 X Area(s) of Ground Depression

 X Other: Waterfowl

 2. Other Observed Features:

 No Yes

 X Suspected Asbestos:

 X Above Ground or Underground Storage Tanks

 X Landfills:

 X Surface Impoundment's:

 X Underground Injection Wells:

 X Drums/Containers/Hazardous Waste

 X Lagoons (Waste Water or Hazardous Waste):

 X Incinerator:

 X Waste Piles/Disposal Sites/Pools of Liquid

 X Oil- filled Electrical Equipment/Transformers

 X Standpipes, Vent Pipes, etc., coming out of the Ground

 X Ordnance:

 X Industrial/Commercial Facilities:

 X Waste Water Treatment Facilities

 X Discharges to Surface Waters or Drainage Ditches:

 Type: Stormwater outfall to the Ship Canal

 Unknown:

 X Potential Environmental/Agricultural Problems on Adjacent

 Land:

 X Industrial area

 X Power or Pipe Lines:

 X Mining/Logging Activity

 X Sick/Dead Wildlife or Domestic Animals:

 X Other: Burn pit adjacent to the north end of the property

 3. Previous Contamination Found: YES

 Petroleum Products

 Degreasers/Solvents

 Pesticides

 Herbicides

 Radioactivity

 Heavy Metals

 Organic Chemicals

 Ammunition

 Underground Storage Tanks

 X None

 Other

 Note: Further explanations shall be noted at the end of this document for any items under B 1, 2, or 3 that are checked "Yes".

 C. Reconnaissance Sources

 1. Site Visit: A site visit was performed 17 July 2005 by a representative of the Technical Services Branch, Environmental Engineering and Technology Section (Sandy Lemlich). The visit consisted of a tour of the site.

 2. Internal District Records: NO YES a. X Permits b. X Contracts c. X Leases d. X Easements e. X Deeds f. X Licenses g. X Other (Interviews with knowledgeable personnel)

 3. Maps/Photos: Aerial photograph

 4. Other Information: None

 Recommendations: Based on the review of the district records, personal interviews, and a site visit, there is evidence to indicate that there is a chance that low concentration of hazardous substances may be present in the soils at the northern most portion of the site resulting from a burn pit that is immediately adjacent, but not on, the subject property. This is discussed at the end of this document. However, the concentration of contaminants is probably small and activities proposed by the City of Seattle will not have an effect on any hazardous substances present on site or contribute any additional hazardous substances to the site. Therefore, the finding of this PAS is that the proposed realty action may be completed without any further consideration for hazardous substances. Nevertheless, it is recommended that the City of Seattle close the fire pit adjacent to USACE land to prevent the increase in contaminant concentrations in adjacent soils.

 Prepared by: Sandra K. Lemlich. Chemist (EC-TB-ET). 26 July 2005

 FURTHER EXPLANATION FOR CATEGORY B ITEMS

 2. Other Observed Features.

 Where 2nd Avenue intersects the Fremont Canal Park, a stormwater outfall and its associated vault into the Ship Canal were observed. However, these structures have no affect on the park land adjacent to the canal. Furthermore, during the site visit a burn pit was observed immediately adjacent to the northwest end of the USACE property on City of Seattle land. This pit was approximately fifteen feet in diameter surrounded by a one to two feet high berm. At the time of the site visit it was not possible to tell exactly what is burned in the pit. But depending on the type of material burned, this pit could be a source of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (cPAH's) to the adjacent soils through aerial deposition. These constituents are hazardous substances. However, since the burn pit is not on park land it is unlikely that the use of USACE lands as a park will affect any hazardous substances or introduce additional hazardous substances to the environment.

```
