

********

**Council Bill Number: 115533**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122069**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with Mount Baker Boating Advisory Council, providing for the expansion and renovation of the Mount Baker Rowing and Sailing Center; authorizing acceptance of funds from Mount Baker Boating Advisory Council for such purpose; and increasing the expenditure authority in the 2006 budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 10, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 17, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 14, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 3, 2006
   
**Committee:** Parks, Education, Libraries and Labor
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** GRANTS, CAPITAL-IMPROVEMENT-PROGRAM, BUDGET, MOUNT-BAKER, SAILING, BOATING

**Fiscal Note:**115533

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with Mount Baker Boating Advisory Council, providing for the expansion and renovation of the Mount Baker Rowing and Sailing Center; authorizing acceptance of funds from Mount Baker Boating Advisory Council for such purpose; and increasing the expenditure authority in the 2006 budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, Mount Baker Rowing and Sailing Center ("Center") is a City- owned recreation facility located at Stan Sayers Park on Lake Washington; and

 WHEREAS, Mount Baker Boating Advisory Council ("MBBAC") is a community advisory council, operating as a part of the Associated Recreation Council in accordance with Chapter 18.04 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and

 WHEREAS, the MBBAC provides recreational boating programs and activities for the general public at the Center; and

 WHEREAS, the MBBAC has funds to expand and renovate the Center to provide additional opportunities for boating experiences; and

 WHEREAS, the MBBAC and the Department of Parks and Recreation wish to enter into an agreement to define their respective roles and responsibilities with respect to the expansion of the Center; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or his designee is hereby authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to enter into an agreement with the MBBAC, substantially in the form of Attachment 1 to this Ordinance, in order to renovate the Mount Baker Rowing and Sailing Center as described in the Mt. Baker Rowing & Sailing Center - Addition Project (K73977-02) in the Department of Parks and Recreation's 2006-2011 Adopted Capital Improvement Program.

 Section 2. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or his designee is authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to accept Nine Hundred Eighty-two Thousand Six Hundred Fifty-five Dollars ($982,655) in funding from the Mount Baker Rowing and Sailing Advisory Council for the renovation of the Mount Baker Rowing and Sailing Center as reimbursement for the appropriations authorized in Section 3 below.

 Section 3. Contingent upon the execution of the agreement authorized in Section 1 above, and in order to pay for necessary costs and expenses for which insufficient appropriations were made, the appropriation for the following in the 2006 Adopted Budget is increased from the funds shown, as follows:

 Department Fund Budget Control Amount Level/ CIP Program

 Parks and Shoreline Park K72444 - Recreation Improvement Building Component $982,655 Fund (33110) Renovations

 Any amounts unspent and unencumbered shall automatically carry forward from year to year until spent or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 4. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Memorandum of Agreement between the City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation and Mount Baker Boating Advisory Council

 Exhibits to Attachment 1:

 Exhibit A - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION AND RECREATION ADVISORY COUNCILS

 version #2

 Attachment 1 to DPR Mt. Baker Rowing Ordinance

 MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

 Between

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION

 And

 MOUNT BAKER BOATING ADVISORY COUNCIL

 Regarding

 THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE EXPANSION OF

 THE MOUNT BAKER ROWING AND SAILING CENTER

 This Memorandum of Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into by Mount Baker Boating Advisory Council ("MBBAC"), a Washington nonprofit corporation, and the City of Seattle ("City"), a first class city of the State of Washington, acting through the Superintendent of its Department of Parks and Recreation (respectively, "Superintendent" and "Department").

 I. RECITALS

 WHEREAS, the Mount Baker Rowing and Sailing Center ("Center") is a City-owned facility under the jurisdiction of the Department; and

 WHEREAS, the MBBAC is a private not-for-profit corporation established to manage the Center's activities and fiscal resources (see Exhibit A): and

 WHEREAS, the MBBAC intends to finance the design, permitting, and construction of an expanded boating facility at the Center ("the Project"); and

 WHEREAS, the MBBAC is raising monies and securing pledges to pay for the Project, which the parties agree the City would not otherwise undertake; and

 WHEREAS, the construction contract for the Project will be advertised, bid, awarded, and managed in accordance with the City's public works processes;

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, the parties agree as follows:

 1. Purpose

 The purpose of this Agreement is to define the rights and obligations of the parties with respect to the design, permitting, financing, and construction of an expansion of the Mount Baker Rowing and Sailing Center, which expansion is referred to in this Agreement as "the Project."

 2. Authority

 The Department has jurisdiction and administrative authority over the Center. The Superintendent shall make all final decisions concerning the Center, its maintenance and operation. MBBAC shall not make any changes, alterations, improvements, or additions to the Center without formal review by the Department's ProView, Project Steering and the MBBAC, and approval by the Superintendent. ProView is a standing, inter-disciplinary, technical review committee: Project Steering is a standing, inter-disciplinary policy and decision making committee

 3. Approval of Design and Ownership of Improvements

 The Superintendent and the MBBAC have thoroughly reviewed all Project documents, including but not limited to, the plans and specifications prepared by Abrahams Architects, and dated September 26, 2005, and hereby approves the same for construction of the Project in accordance with all terms and conditions contained herein. Upon completion of the Project, the improvements shall become the City's property. Upon Project completion, retention, removal, or alteration of the improvements shall be at the Superintendent's discretion.

 4. Term

 Except as provided below, this Agreement shall remain in effect through the completion of construction, as evidenced by issuance of a "Certificate of Occupancy" from the City of Seattle, Department of Planning and Development and a letter of physical completion from the Park Engineer.

 Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the City may terminate this Agreement without liability of any kind if MBBAC is unable to fulfill its financial obligations under Subsection 6.A, below.

 The MBBAC may withdraw from and terminate this Project, without liability, only prior to award of the Project construction contract.

 Either party's termination, as provided above, shall not relieve MBBAC from paying the full amount of Project costs that either party incurred in furtherance of this Agreement prior to the effective termination date, and MBBAC's obligation to pay such Project costs shall survive the termination of this Agreement. MBBAC shall pay all expenses that survive the termination within 40 days from the date of the City's invoice therefor.

 5. Center Improvements and Amenities

 All Project costs shall be borne by the MBBAC except for those amounts identified in Subsection 6.B as the Department's responsibility. While the parties have estimated the final Project budget and the construction contract as shown in the chart below, these numbers represent the total of all funds available for this Project, and any commitment of funds (e.g. scope changes or cost overruns), beyond the estimated amounts (which include the contingency) requires the written approval of both parties.

 PROJECT BUDGET

 To be Spent In-kind Spent by Total by City Donations MBBAC Project Cost Planning Phase 0 0 0 0 Expenses

 Olmstead Redesign (SPIF) 30,912 0 30,912

 Bidding and CSA 79,609 0 212,658 292,267

 Permitting and Review 151,588 0 123,438 275,026

 Construction Related Fees 91,064 0 22,930 113,994

 Construction Contract Amount (CCA including WSST) 1,210,677 205,506 1,953 1,418,136

 Contingency 199,717 0 0 199,717

 TOTALs 1.763,567 205,506 360,979 2,330,052

 Final Project Budget 2,330,052

 Revenue Source City Joint City Raised by Total Contribution and MBBAC MBBAC Project Effort Budget

 Shoreline Park Improvement $30,912 $0 $30,912 Fund

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund - $300,000 $0 $300,000 REET I

 Wa. State IAC Grant $0 $350,000 $0 $350,000

 Dept. of Neighborhoods NMF $0 $100,000 $0 $100,000 Grant

 King County Executive Fund $0 $0 $250,000 $250,000 Grant

 King County Sports Grant $0 $0 $45,000 $45,000

 Private Grants and Donations $0 $0 $687,655 $687,655

 Project Subtotal $330,912 $450,000 $982,655 $1,763,567

 In-Kind Donations $0 $0 $205,506 $205,506

 Project Subtotal $330,912 $450,000 $1,188,161 $1,969,073

 Grants and Donations to Be $0 $98,900* $,262,079 $360,979 Spent Directly by MBBAC

 Total Costs $330,912 $548,900 $1,450,240 $2,330,052

 6. Scope of Work and Financial Contribution

 A. MBBAC shall:

 * Contract with the Project architect, any special subconsultants not under contract to the architect, and for special inspections, and pay all related costs;

 * Assign to or cooperate with the City in enforcing any claims against the architect or other consultants under contract with MBBAC that may arise as a result of any deficiencies in the design of the Project. The parties agree that this obligation shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement;

 * Obtain all Project permits and pay all permitting costs prior to the scheduled bidding date;

 * Contract for design and installation of water service upgrades after Parks' review and approval of construction documents;

 * Contract for a hazardous materials survey and abatement, if the Superintendent determines that the same is required;

 * Provide the Department an affidavit verified by a professional cost estimating firm, identifying the materials, supplies, and services donated as a means to reduce the cash requirement for the Construction Contract Amount (CCA) prior to bidding, as further described in the second bullet point of Subsection 7. B;

 * Reimburse the Department for staff labor as detailed in Subsection 7. A;

 * Appoint a single MBBAC representative to act as construction liaison who shall:

 1) attend weekly construction meetings;

 2) consult with the Department as necessary to revise the Project scope so as to stay within budget;

 3) report back to the MBBAC on monetary and physical progress of the Project;

 4) consult with Department staff regarding modification proposals; and

 5) ensure timely transfer of contingency funds from the Associated Recreation Council account (see Exhibit A), when needed for approved change orders.

 * Pay builder's risk insurance premiums; and

 * Pay any and all other Project costs not specifically identified in this Agreement which are associated with work items outlined in Section 5 of this Agreement, up to the total amount of the Final Project Budget as indicated in Section 5 of this Agreement.

 B. The Department's contribution to the Project shall be limited to the following:

 * $30,912 for revised concept plan and design development;

 * $300,000 from the Cumulative Reserve Fund for project management and construction;

 * The finish paint coat on the exterior of the entire Crew House, in accordance with the approved Project documents;

 * Carpentry labor, limited to installing new roofs on the entire facility, including existing roof area and expanded roof areas, as shown on the approved Project documents. Skylights, gutters and downspouts are excluded from this work; and

 * $712,000 for renovation of the parking lot within Stan Sayers Park. Parking lot improvements, shall be designed by Magnusson Klemencic Associates coordinated with the expansion Project's construction documents so that the design intentions and schedules of the two projects are synchronized to the extent practicable.

 7. Payment Terms

 A. Fees and services

 MBBAC shall pay all of the following Department charges, based on actual hours and expenditures, not to exceed the limits where stated below. The Department shall invoice MBBAC for such charges monthly, and MBBAC shall pay each invoice within 30 days of receipt. Simple interest of 1% per month will be added to all unpaid invoices in excess of $50, computed from the payment due date until paid in full (City ordinance 117969).

 * Project management ("PM") hours, not to exceed 5% of the CCA. Work includes, but is not limited to, oversight coordination, consultant and plan review coordination, bidding, construction administration, and project closeout.

 * Plan review hours, not to exceed 1% of the CCA.

 * Construction inspection hours, not to exceed 3.5% of the CCA.

 * Design Commission fee, not to exceed .33 of 1% of Final Project Budget

 * Builder's Risk Insurance premiums, typically equaling .0015 of the Project total.

 B. Transfer of Project Monies

 * The Department will advertise for bids when the MBBAC satisfies all of the following conditions:

 o MBBAC has transferred the estimated CCA, including sales tax, to the Department, less the following amounts:

 * government grants already received and committed to the Project; and

 * the value of donated goods and services, documented by an affidavit verified by a professional cost estimating firm, which MBBAC shall obtain;

 o MBBAC has deposited contingency funds equaling 15% of the estimated CCA in an Associated Recreation Council account (see Exhibit A) as specified in Subsection 7. E. These funds shall be deposited no later than the transfer of the Project monies to the Department as specified in Subsection 7. B; and

 o MBBAC has provided the Superintendent with a bank account statement demonstrating to the Department's satisfaction that funds are available to fund PM and inspector hours during construction.

 * A check for the full amount of the CCA including Washington State Sales Tax, as specified in Section 5, payable to The City of Seattle, together with the affidavit for donated services, materials and products, and other documentation described above, shall be delivered to the Department at the address listed below one week prior to the date the Department notifies the MBBAC that it intends to advertise for bids:

 Andy Sheffer

 Seattle Parks and Recreation

 800 Maynard Ave. S., Suite 300

 Seattle, WA 98134-1336

 C. Grant Match:

 * The parties acknowledge that the Interagency Committee for Outdoor Recreation has awarded a $350,000 grant to the MBBAC that must be matched 1:1, and agree that Department staff hours for Project technical assistance may be counted toward the match, up to a total value of $72,021; and

 * The Department will provide the MBBAC, on a monthly basis, a report documenting the accrued value of the match.

 D. Refunds:

 * If the Department fails to bid and/or award the Project within a two month period from the date the Department receives the Project funding from MBBAC, the Department shall promptly refund all sums and sales taxes the MBBAC previously delivered to the Department for the Project CCA, less Departmental expenses incurred up to the date of refund, including bidding costs and project management; and

 * If the MBBAC terminates this Project prior to the award of the construction contract, it may submit a written request to the Department for release and refund of any unencumbered funds, less Departmental expenses, as described above. Encumbered funds will also be reviewed and a proper and legal determination made for the processing of any refund to the MBBAC.

 E. Contingency Fund

 Contingency funds will be held in an Associated Recreation Council account (see Exhibit A) during the construction Project and will be released to cover approved change orders within 10 business days of the date of the request.

 8. Dispute Resolution

 The parties will work cooperatively to resolve all issues. If a dispute should arise, the Department's project manager will meet with the MBBAC president to resolve the issue. Any problems not finding resolution at this level will be escalated through a clear line of communication. First, the President of Mount Baker Rowing and Sailing Advisory Council will meet with the Seattle Parks and Recreation, Director of Planning and Development. If no resolution is reached at this level, the President of Mount Baker Rowing and Sailing Advisory Council and the Executive Director of the Associated Recreation Council will meet with the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation. If no resolution is reached at this level, mediation and finally the Superior Court of the State of Washington for King County will be the avenues for dispute resolution.

 9. Compliance with Law

 Both parties shall comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter, Municipal Code, and Ordinances of the City of Seattle.

 10. Relationship of Parties

 Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to create a partnership, joint venture, or employment relationship between the parties.

 11. Applicable Law; Venue

 This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in the Superior Court for King County.

 12. Entire Agreement

 This Agreement contains all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions, between the parties. No verbal agreements or conversations between any officer, agent, associate or employee of the City and any officer, agency, or employee prior to the execution of this Agreement shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in this Agreement. Any such verbal agreements shall be considered unofficial information and in no way binding on either party.

 13. Time of the Essence

 The parties agree that time is of the essence of this Agreement.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, in consideration of the terms, conditions, and covenants contained herein, or attached and incorporated and made a part hereof, the parties have executed this Agreement by having their representatives affix their signatures below.

 MOUNT BAKER BOATING ADVISORY COUNCIL

 By

 Anna Martin, President

 Mount Baker Boating Advisory Council

 DATED _______________________, 2006

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 By

 Kenneth R. Bounds, Superintendent

 Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation

 DATED _______________________, 2006

 VERSION 2

```
