

********

**Council Bill Number: 115580**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122117**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Chapter 23.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code at pages 28 and 29 of the Official Land Use Map to rezone property located at 301 NE 103rd Street from Neighborhood Commercial 3 with a 65 foot height limit (NC3 65) to Neighborhood Commercial 3 with an 85 (NC3 85) foot height limit; accepting a Property Use and Development Agreement in connection therewith; waiving certain development standards; and amending the Northgate Mall Development Agreement first approved by Ordinance 121358.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 15, 2006
   
**Vote:** 6-1 (No: McIver; Excused: Licata, Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 22, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 22, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Northgate South Lot Contract Rezone

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 8, 2006
   
**Committee:** Urban Development and Planning
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** CONTRACT-REZONES, LAND-USE-PLANNING, NORTHGATE, DEVELOPMENT-ACTIVITIES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 121358; Related: Res 30642; CF 307522

**Fiscal Note:**115580

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Chapter 23.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code at pages 28 and 29 of the Official Land Use Map to rezone property located at 301 NE 103rd Street from Neighborhood Commercial 3 with a 65 foot height limit (NC3 65) to Neighborhood Commercial 3 with an 85 (NC3 85) foot height limit; accepting a Property Use and Development Agreement in connection therewith; waiving certain development standards; and amending the Northgate Mall Development Agreement first approved by Ordinance 121358.

 WHEREAS, in December 2003 Council adopted Resolution 30642 establishing a framework for actions related to collaborative planning and redevelopment in the Northgate Urban Center; and

 WHEREAS, in December 2003 Council also passed Ordinance 121358 approving a Development Agreement between the City and Simon Property Group, L.P., owner of the Northgate Mall; and

 WHEREAS, both Resolution 30642 and Ordinance 121358 contemplate redevelopment of the Northgate Mall South Lot and establish certain expectations for redevelopment including collaboration with the Northgate Stakeholders Group, development of no fewer than 300 multifamily units on the site, participation in the Northgate Coordinated Transportation Investment Plan, coordination with areawide pedestrian circulation and open space plans, consideration of the use of sustainable design and green building techniques, and consideration of employing natural drainage strategies; and

 WHEREAS, Northgate South Commons, L.L.C., a development entity for Lorig and Associates has submitted plans for redevelopment of the South Lot to the Department of Planning and Development (Master Use Permit 2401519) that are generally consistent with the expectations set out in Resolution 30642 and Ordinance 121358; and

 WHEREAS, it is the Council's continuing expectation that final development of the South Lot by Lorig and Associates will be consistent with the expectations established in Resolution 30642 and Ordinance 121358;

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The cross hatched area of the property depicted on Exhibit A is hereby rezoned from Neighborhood Commercial 3 with a 65 foot height limit (NC3 65) to Neighborhood Commercial 3 with an 85 (NC3 85) foot height limit.

 Section 2. The Property Use and Development Agreement attached to this Ordinance as "Exhibit B" (the "PUDA") is hereby approved and accepted and the Mayor is hereby authorized to execute the PUDA on behalf of the City.

 Section 3. Pursuant to SMC 23.34.004B, the City hereby modifies the following specific off-street parking and loading requirements:

 a. The ERA Care Parcel, as such parcel is depicted in the PUDA, shall have a minimum parking ratio of .5 stalls per 1 unit.

 b. The requirement for an on-site loading berth for the ERA Care Parcel is modified to allow the loading berth for the building on the ERA Care Parcel to be located along 5th Ave. NE., south of the parking garage entrance, as depicted in the Master Use Permit 2401519, Clerk's File 307522, as may be revised from time to time in accordance with the Seattle Municipal Code.

 Section 4. This Ordinance shall be null and void and of no further force or effect if Northgate South Commons, LLC or its assignee fails to acquire the Lorig Project Parcel, as defined in the PUDA, by December 31, 2006.

 Section 5. If this Ordinance does not become null and void by operation of Section 4 above, then pursuant to SMC 23.76.060 (B) (1) (b), this rezone shall expire five (5) years from the effective date of this ordinance unless an application is filed for a Master Use Permit which is subsequently issued, in which case the contract rezone will remain in effect until the Master Use Permit expires or the five (5) year contract rezone period ends, whichever is longer, pursuant to SMC 23.76.060 (B).

 Section 6. Section 8 of the Northgate Mall Development Agreement, approved by Ordinance 121358, is amended as shown on Exhibit C attached to this Ordinance.

 Section 7. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file the PUDA, the Amendment to Northgate Mall Development Agreement, and a copy of this ordinance at the King County Records, Elections and Licensing Services Division and file, upon return of the recorded agreements from the King County Records, Elections and Licensing Services Division, the original of said agreements with this Ordinance at the City Clerk's Office, and to deliver copies of the same to the Director of the Department of Planning and Development and to the King County Assessor's Office.

 Section 8. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Exhibit A: Rezone Map Exhibit B: Property Use and Development Agreement Exhibit C: Agreement Amending the Northgate Mall Development Agreement

 May 10, 2006 v.2 t

[Exhibit A (Rezone Map)](/~ordpics/115580ExA.gif)

 Exhibit B: Property Use and Development Agreement

 When recorded, return to: The City Clerk 600 4th Avenue, Floor 3 P.O. Box 94728 Seattle, WA 98124-4728

 PROPERTY USE AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

 Grantors:

 1) NORTHGATE SOUTH COMMONS LLC, a Washington limited liability company

 2) J.I.A. INVESTMENTS, LLC, a Washington limited liability company

 Grantees:

 1) THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation

 2) J.I.A. INVESTMENTS, LLC, a Washington limited liability company

 3) NORTHGATE SOUTH COMMONS LLC, a Washington limited liability company

 Legal Description (abbreviated): Ptn. of SE 1/4 NE 1/4 NW 1/4 Sec 32, T 26 N, R 4 E

 (SEE ATTACHMENT 1 FOR COMPLETE LEGAL DESCRIPTION)

 Assessor's Tax Parcel ID #: Ptn of 322604-9561-00 and 322604-9181- 00

 Reference No.: None

 _____________________________________________________________________

 THIS PROPERTY USE AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is executed this _____ day of ______, 2006 by and among THE CITY OF SEATTLE, A Washington municipal corporation (the "City"), NORTHGATE SOUTH COMMONS, LLC, a Washington limited liability company ("NSC"), and J.I.A. INVESTMENTS, LLC, a Washington limited liability company ("JIA" and collectively with NSC, the "Developers").

 RECITALS

 A. The City and NMP each own a portion of the real property legally described in Attachment 1 (the "Property").

 B. NSC has a contractual right to acquire a portion of the Property known as "Northgate Commons" located at 301 NE 103rd Street, Seattle, WA and more particularly shown on Attachment 2 and labeled the "Lorig Project Parcel". ERA Care has a contractual right to acquire a portion of the Property more particularly shown on Attachment 2 and labeled the "ERA Care Parcel." NSC intends to

 acquire the Lorig Project Parcel; JIA intends to acquire the ERA Care Parcel.

 C. Lorig Associates, LLC, as agent of NSC, filed an application (C.F.307522) with the City ("Application")for a contract rezone to rezone a portion of the Property from Neighborhood Commercial 3 with a 65 foot height limit ("NC3-65") to Neighborhood Commercial 3 with an 85 ft. height limit ("NC3-85") as shown on Attachment 3, subject to the conditions described in Section 1 below. The purpose of the contract rezone is to help achieve redevelopment goals contained in the City's comprehensive plan and other plans and to permit sufficient height and allow waiver of certain parking and loading restrictions to allow the Developers to develop the Lorig Project Parcel and ERA Care Parcel in the manner stated in the Application.

 D. Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC") Section 23.34.004A provides that the City Council may approve a rezone subject to an agreement by the legal or beneficial owner of the property to be rezoned to self- imposed restrictions upon the use and development of the property in order to ameliorate adverse impacts which could occur from unrestricted use and development permitted in the zone. SMC 23.34.004B provides that the ordinance accepting this Agreement may waive specific bulk or off-street parking and loading requirements if the City Council determines that the waivers are necessary under the agreement to achieve a better development than would otherwise result from the application of regulations of the zone.

 NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto agree as follows:

 AGREEMENT

 Section 1. Developers hereby agree, on behalf of themselves and their successors and assigns, that they will comply with the following self-imposed restriction upon the use and development of the Lorig Project Parcel and ERA Care Parcel: development shall be substantially in accordance with Master Use Permit 2401519(Clerk's File 307522) for the ERA Care Parcel and Lorig Project Parcel, as may be revised from time to time in accordance with the SMC.

 Section 2. This Agreement shall be recorded in the records of King County and filed with the City Clerk within one hundred twenty (120) days of adoption of the ordinance accepting the agreement. Upon recording of this Agreement, the covenants hereof shall be deemed to attach to and run with the Property and shall be binding upon the Developers, their heirs, successors and assigns, and shall apply to after-acquired title of the Developers of the Property.

 Section 3. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, NSC shall not be bound by this Agreement if NSC fails to acquire the Lorig Project Parcel (as such parcel is described on Attachment 2), and JIA shall not be bound by this Agreement if JIA fails to acquire the ERA Care Parcel (as such parcel is described on Attachment 2).

 Section 4. This Agreement may be amended in accordance with the SMC. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent the City Council from making such further amendments to the zoning ordinance and/or Land Use Code or exercising the City's police power, as it may deem necessary in the public interest.

 Section 5. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.

 SIGNED this _____ day of ____________________, 2006.

 END OF TEXT; SIGNATURE PAGES FOLLOW

 NSC/DEVELOPER: NORTHGATE SOUTH COMMONS, LLC, a Washington limited liability company By: Lorig Associates L.L.C., a Washington limited liability company,its Manager By: ____________________________ Bruce C. Lorig, its Manager

 JIA/DEVELOPER: J.I.A. INVESTMENTS, LLC, a Washington limited liability company By: ______________________________ Eli J. Almo, its Manager

 CITY:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation By: ___________________________________________ Gregory Nickels, Mayor of Seattle

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF NSC/DEVELOPER

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 : ss.

 COUNTY OF ___________ )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Bruce C. Lorig is the person who appeared before me, and he acknowledged that he signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as a Manager of Lorig Associates L.L.C., the limited liability company which is the Manager of NORTHGATE SOUTH COMMONS LLC, the limited liability company that executed the within and foregoing instrument, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated this ____ day of _______________________, 2006. ___________________________________ [Signature of Notary] ___________________________________ [Print Name of Notary] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _______________. My commission expires: ______________.

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF JIA/DEVELOPER

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) : ss.

 COUNTY OF ___________ )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Eli J. Almo is the person who appeared before me, and he acknowledged that he signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the Manager of J.I.A. INVESTMENTS, LLC, the limited liability company that executed the within and foregoing instrument, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated this ____ day of _______________________, 2006. ___________________________________ [Signature of Notary] ___________________________________ [Print Name of Notary] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _______________. My commission expires: ______________.

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF CITY

 On this day personally appeared before me Gregory Nickels to me known to be the Mayor of The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, the party that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged such instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of such corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was duly authorized to execute such instrument.

 GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL this _____ day of___________________, 2006.

 Printed Name: _______________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at: _______________________

 My Commission Expires: ______________________

 LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

 1: Legal Description of Property Subject to PUDA

 2: Sketch Depicting Lorig Project Parcel and ERA Care Parcel

 3: Site Zoning Diagram

 ATTACHMENT 1

 PARCEL A DESCRIPTION

 THAT PORTION OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 32, TOWNSHIP 26 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, W.M., IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

 BEGINNING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE WEST LINE OF SAID SUBDIVISION AND THE SOUTH LINE OF THE NORTH 30.00 FEET THEREOF, SAID SOUTH LINE BEING THE SOUTH MARGIN OF NORTHEAST 103RD STREET, THENCE SOUTH 88 DEGREES 15'44" EAST 446.63 FEET ALONG SAID SOUTH MARGIN;

 THENCE SOUTH 01 DEGREES 44'16" WEST 461.07 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 28 DEGREES 12'43" WEST 154.29 FEET TO THE NORTH LINE OF THE SOUTH 33.00 FEET OF SAID SUBDIVISION, SAID NORTH LINE BEING THE NORTH MARGIN OF NORTHEAST 100TH STREET;

 THENCE NORTH 88 DEGREES 16'22" WEST 366.35 FEET ALONG SAID NORTH MARGIN TO THE WEST LINE OF SAID SUBDIVISION;

 THENCE NORTH 00 DEGREES 38'18" EAST 599.36 FEET ALONG SAID WEST LINE TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 SUBJECT TO SLOPE EASEMENT PER DEED, RECORDING NO. 4263049.

 THE PARCEL DESCRIBED ABOVE CONTAINS 259,429 SQUARE FEET (5.956 ACRES), MORE OR LESS.

 SITUATE IN THE CITY OF SEATTLE, KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON.

 PARCEL B DESCRIPTION

 THAT PORTION OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 32, TOWNSHIP 26 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, W.M., IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

 COMMENCING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE WEST LINE OF SAID SUBDIVISION AND THE SOUTH LINE OF THE NORTH 30.00 FEET THEREOF, SAID SOUTH LINE BEING THE SOUTH MARGIN OF NORTHEAST 103RD STREET, THENCE SOUTH 88 DEGREES 15'44" EAST 446.63 FEET ALONG SAID SOUTH MARGIN TO THE TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 THENCE SOUTH 01 DEGREES 44'16" WEST 461.07 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 28 DEGREES 12'43" WEST 154.29 FEET TO THE NORTH LINE OF THE SOUTH 33.00 FEET OF SAID SUBDIVISION, SAID NORTH LINE BEING THE NORTH MARGIN OF NORTHEAST 100TH STREET;

 THENCE SOUTH 88 DEGREES 16'22" EAST 265.35 FEET ALONG SAID NORTH MARGIN TO THE WEST LINE OF THE EAST 30.00 FEET OF SAID SUBDIVISION, SAID WEST LINE BEING THE WEST MARGIN OF 5TH AVENUE NORTHEAST;

 THENCE NORTH 00 DEGREES 40'03" EAST 278.09 FEET ALONG SAID WEST MARGIN TO AN ANGLE POINT THEREIN;

 THENCE ALONG SAID WEST MARGIN THE FOLLOWING THREE COURSES:

 THENCE NORTH 89 DEGREES 19'57" WEST 4.50 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 00 DEGREES 40'03" EAST 298.66 FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A CURVE CONCAVE SOUTHWESTERLY HAVING A RADIUS OF 23.00 FEET;

 THENCE NORTHERLY, NORTHWESTERLY AND WESTERLY 35.70 FEET ALONG SAID CURVE THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 88 DEGREES 55'47" TO A POINT OF TANGENCY ON SAID SOUTH MARGIN OF NORTHEAST 103RD STREET;

 THENCE NORTH 88 DEGREES 15'44" WEST 158.30 FEET ALONG SAID SOUTH MARGIN TO THE TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 SUBJECT TO SLOPE EASEMENTS PER ORDINANCE NUMBER 91334 AND PER DEED, RECORDING NO. 4263049.

 THE PARCEL DESCRIBED ABOVE CONTAINS 117,617 SQUARE FEET (2.700 ACRES), MORE OR LESS.

 SITUATE IN THE CITY OF SEATTLE, KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON.

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 NORTHGATE SOUTH PARKING LOT

 WILLIAM A. HICKOX, P.L.S. BRH JOB NO. 2003061.00 JULY 10, 2003 REVISED SEPTEMBER 10, 2003

 Sketch Depicting Lorig Project Parcel and ERA Care Parcel

[Attachment 2 (Sketch)](/~ordpics/115580ExB_a2.gif)

 Site Zoning Diagram

[Attachment 2 (Site Zoning Diagram)](/~ordpics/115580ExB_a3.gif)

 Exhibit C

 AMENDMENT TO

 NORTHGATE MALL DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

 This AMENDMENT ("Amendment") is entered into this ____ day of May, 2006, by and between NORTHGATE MALL PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware general partnership ("NMP") and the CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("City")

Recitals

 A. Simon Property Group, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("Simon") and the City are parties to the Northgate Mall Development Agreement dated December 8, 2003 recorded in the official records of King County Washington on August 11, 2004 under Recording No 20040811001009 (the "Development Agreement"). The Development Agreement applies to the Northgate Shopping Mall and certain real property located south of the Mall commonly referred to as the "South Lot". NMP, an affiliate of Simon, is the owner of a portion of the South Lot ("Parcel A").

 B. Northgate South Commons, LLC ("NSC") has acquired the right to purchase Parcel A from NMP. In connection with such acquisition, an affiliate of NSC has filed an application (C.F.307522) with the City ("Application") for a contract rezone to rezone a portion of the South Lot from Neighborhood Commercial 3 with a 65 foot height limit

 ("NC3-65") to Neighborhood Commercial 3 with an 85 ft. height limit ("NC3-85") subject to certain conditions. The purpose of the contract rezone is to permit sufficient height and allow waiver of certain parking and loading restrictions to allow the development of the South Lot in the manner stated in the Application.

 NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual benefits and covenants contained herein, the parties agree as follows:

 1. Amendment. Section 8 of the Development Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

 8. VESTING OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

 The proposed development described in Section 6 of this Agreement shall vest to the development standards in effect on ~~the effective date of the ordinance approving this Agreement~~January 16, 2004 (the effective date of Ordinance 121358), provided that the proposed development is subject to that change in zoning heights and parking and loading standards approved in Sections 2 and 3 of Council Bill ______. The proposed development shall not be vested against the application of development standards that are imposed by virtue of state or federal pre-emption of the City's regulatory authority. As provided by R.C.W. 36.70B.170 (4), the proposed development shall not vest against new development regulations to the extent the new regulations are required by a serious threat to public health and safety.

 2. Execution in Counterparts; Facsimile Transmission of Signatures. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and together with all other executed counterparts of the Amendment shall be deemed an original document having the same effect as if all parties hereto had signed the same signature page.

 3. Amendment Limited. Except as otherwise specifically amended herein, the Development Agreement is in full force and effect without modification or amendment whatsoever.

 Dated as of the day and year first above written.

 CITY:

 CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation  Dated: By: Title:

 NMP: NORTHGATE MALL PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware general partnership By: SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, its General Partner By: SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. a Delaware corporation, Managing General Partner By: Title:

```
