

********

**Council Bill Number: 115521**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122049**
********

 An ordinance relating to the Seattle Building Code, Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.100; amending Chapters 1, Administration; Chapter 2, Definitions; Chapter 3, Use and Occupancy Classification; Chapter 4, Special Detailed Requirements Based on Use and Occupancy; Chapter 9, Fire Protection Systems; Chapter 10, Means of Egress; Chapter 11, Accessibility; Chapter 12, Interior Environment; Chapter 14, Exterior Walls; Chapter 16, Structural Design; Chapter 17, Structural Tests and Special Inspections; Chapter 21, Masonry; Chapter 24, Glazing; Chapter 25, Gypsum Board and Plaster; Chapter 29, Plumbing Systems; Chapter 30, Elevators and Conveying Systems; Chapter 34, Existing Buildings; and Chapter 35, Referenced Standards.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 27, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 5, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 5, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 20, 2006
   
**Committee:** Urban Development and Planning
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUILDING-CODES

**Fiscal Note:**115521

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Building Code, Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.100; amending Chapters 1, Administration; Chapter 2, Definitions; Chapter 3, Use and Occupancy Classification; Chapter 4, Special Detailed Requirements Based on Use and Occupancy; Chapter 9, Fire Protection Systems; Chapter 10, Means of Egress; Chapter 11, Accessibility; Chapter 12, Interior Environment; Chapter 14, Exterior Walls; Chapter 16, Structural Design; Chapter 17, Structural Tests and Special Inspections; Chapter 21, Masonry; Chapter 24, Glazing; Chapter 25, Gypsum Board and Plaster; Chapter 29, Plumbing Systems; Chapter 30, Elevators and Conveying Systems; Chapter 34, Existing Buildings; and Chapter 35, Referenced Standards.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section Subsection 101.2 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 101

 TITLE, PURPOSE AND SCOPE

 101.2 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the construction, alteration, moving, demolition, repair and occupancy of any building or structure within the City, except public utility towers and poles, mechanical equipment not specifically regulated in this code, and hydraulic flood control structures. See Chapter 32 for regulation of structures located on, over or under public property or a public right of way.

 Exception: Detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (town houses) not more than three stories above grade plane in height with a separate means of egress and their accessory structures shall comply with the International Residential Code.

 Additions, alterations, repairs, and changes of occupancy or character of occupancy in all buildings and structures shall comply with the provisions for new buildings and structures, except as otherwise provided in Chapter 34 of this code.

NOTE: The minimum standards of the Seattle Housing and Building Maintenance Code, SMC 22.200-22.208, do not apply to any structure constructed and maintained in compliance with standards and procedures of the Seattle Building, Mechanical, Fire, Electrical and Plumbing Codes currently in effect.

 Code Alternate CA101.2: A building which fully complies with the Washington State Building Code may be permitted for construction and occupancy without meeting all requirements of this Seattle Building Code, provided the building complies with the following Seattle Building Code provisions, when applicable:

 1. Section 414.1.4 and Section 1614.6 requirements for pre- application meetings for hazardous occupancies and buildings with unusual load resisting structural designs;

 2. Section 420 and Section 1016 requirements for one-hour construction and corridor construction for certain residential occupancies;

 3. Chapter 4 requirements for construction in the fire district;

 4. Section 403 provisions for high rise buildings;

 5. Section 404 provisions for atria;

 6. Section 903.2.1.2, 903.2.2 903.2.5.2 903.2.10.4 sprinkler requirements for Group A-2, E, LC occupancies, and certain storage and sales occupancies;

 7. Section 501 addressing provisions;

 8. Seattle Residential Code provisions for floating homes; and

 9. Section 421 provisions for waterfront piers.

 * * *

 Section Subsections 106.2 and 106.5 of the Seattle Building Code are amended as follows:

 SECTION 106

 BUILDING PERMITS

 ***

 106.2 Work exempt from permit. A building permit shall not be required for the work listed below. Exemption for the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of the City.

 1. Minor repairs or alterations which, as determined by the building official, cost the owner $4,000 or less in any 6-month period. Such repairs and alterations shall not include the removal, reduction, alteration, or relocation of any loadbearing support. Egress, light, ventilation, and fire-resistance shall not be reduced.

 2. Miscellaneous work including the following, provided no changes are made to the building envelope: patio and concrete slabs on grade, painting or cleaning a building, repointing a chimney, installing kitchen cabinets, paneling or other surface finishes over existing wall and ceiling systems applied in accordance with Sections 801-805, insulation existing buildings, abatement of hazardous materials, demolition of nonstructural interior tenant improvements in retail and office uses, and in-kind or similar replacement of or repair of deteriorated members of a structure.

 3. One-story detached accessory buildings used for greenhouse, too or storage shed, playhouse, or similar uses, provided:

 3.1. The projected roof area does not exceed 120 square feet; and

 3.2. The building is not placed on a concrete foundation other than a slab on grade.

 4. Fences not over 8 feet high which do not have masonry or concrete elements above 6 feet.

 5. Arbors and other open-framed landscape structures not exceeding 120 square feet in projected area.

 6. Cases, counters and partitions not over 5 feet 9 inches high.

 7. Retaining walls and rockeries which are not over 4 feet in height measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, provided:

 7.1. There is no surcharge or impoundment of Class I, II or III-A liquids.

 7.2 Construction is not in a critical area or an environmentally sensitive are, nor supports soils in areas of geologic hazard, steep slope or having landslide potential as identified in the environmentally sensitive and critical area regulations contained in Chapters 25.05 and 25.09 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 8. Platforms, walks and driveways not more than 18 inches above grade and not over any basement or story below.

 9. Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and scenery.

 10. Window awnings supported by an exterior wall of Group r, Division 3, and Group U Occupancies when projection not more than 54 inches.

 11. Prefabricated swimming pools, spas and similar equipment accessory to a Group R, Division 3 occupancy in which the pool walls are entirely above the adjacent grade and if the capacity does not exceed 5,000 gallons.

 12. Replacement of roofing materials and siding. This shall not include structural changes, replacement of sheathing or alterations to doors and windows. ~~In single-family dwelling reroofing projects, the existing roof sheathing may be replaced and roof structure may be repaired without permit provided no changes are made to the building envelope other than adding or replacing insulation, and the work is equivalent or better than the existing structure.~~ See Energy Code Sections 101.3.2.5 and 1132.1 for insulation requirements for existing buildings.

Exception: In detached one- and two- family dwellings, the existing roof sheathing may be replaced and roof structure may be repaired without permit provided no changes are made to the building envelope other than adding or replacing insulation, and the work is equivalent to or better than the existing structure.

13. School, park or private playground equipment including playhouses and tree houses.

 14. Removal and/or replacement of underground storage tanks that are subject to regulation by a state or federal agency.

 Note: A Fire Department permit is required for removal, replacement and decommissioning of underground storage tanks.

 15. Installation of dish and panel antennas 6.56 feet (2 m) or less in diameter or diagonal measurement.

 ***

 106.5 Application for permit

 106.5.1 Application. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application in writing on a form furnished by the Department of Planning and Development for that purpose. Every such application shall:

 1. Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which application is made.

 2. Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal description, property address or similar description that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work.

 3. Provide contractor's business name, address, phone number and current contractor registration number (required if contractor has been selected).

 4. Be accompanied by plans, and other data as required in Section 106.5.2.

 5. State the valuation of any new building or structure or any addition, remodeling or alteration to an existing building including cost breakdown between additions and alterations.

 6. Be signed by the owner of the property or building, or his/her authorized agent who may be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.

 7. Give such other data and information as may be required by the building official, including, but not limited to, master use and shoreline permits and building identification plans.

 8. Indicate the name of the owner and contractor and the name, address and phone number of a contact person.

 9. Substantially conform with the Land Use Code, critical areas regulations and building code regulations in effect on the date that the application is submitted.

 106.5.2 Plans and specifications.

 106.5.2.1 General. Plans, calculations, diagrams and other data shall be submitted in two or more sets with each application for a permit. Computations, stress diagrams, shop and fabrication drawings and other data sufficient to show the adequacy of the plans shall be submitted when required by the building official.

 Exception: The building official may waive the submission of plans, calculations, diagrams and other data, if he/she finds that the nature of the work applied for is such that reviewing of plans is not necessary to obtain compliance with this code.

 106.5.2.2 Preparation by licensed professionals. Plans, computations and specifications for all work shall be prepared and designed by or under the direct supervision of an architect or structural engineer licensed to practice under the laws of the State of Washington. Plans and specifications for work not involving structural design shall be prepared by a professional engineer or architect qualified in the proposed work. Each sheet of plans shall bear the seal and the signature of the licensee.

 Exception: When authorized by the building official, plans and specifications need not be prepared by an engineer or architect licensed by the State of Washington for the following:

 1. ~~One~~Detached one- and two-family dwellings.

 2. New buildings or structures, and additions, alterations or repairs of conventional light frame construction, having a total valuation of less than $30,000.

 3. Nonstructural alterations and repairs having a total valuation of less than $30,000, excluding electrical and mechanical systems, fixtures, equipment, interior finish and millwork.

 4. The building official may accept the design of a licensed professional engineer for assembly line products or designed specialty structural products.

 5. Other work as specified in rules promulgated by the Director.

 106.5.2.3 Clarity of plans. Plans shall be drawn to a clearly indicated and commonly accepted scale upon substantial paper such as blueprint quality or standard drafting paper. Tissue paper, posterboard or cardboard will not be accepted. The plans shall be of microfilm quality and limited to a minimum size of 18 inches by 18 inches and a maximum size of 41 inches by 54 inches.

 Exception: The plans for metal plate connected wood trusses may be not less than 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches for single family structures and no less than 11 inches by 17 inches for all other structures.

 106.5.2.4 Information required on plans. Plans shall include the following, as applicable:

 1. A plot plan showing the width of streets, alleys, yards and courts.

 2. The location (and/or location within a building), floor area, story, height, type of construction and occupancy classification as defined by the building code and use as defined by the Land Use Code of the proposed building and of every existing building on the property.

 3. Where there are more than two buildings located on a property, a building identification plan identifying the location of each building on the property and identifying each building by a numbering system unrelated to address. Such plan shall not be required where a plan for the site is already on file and no new buildings are being added to the site.

 4. Types of heating and air conditioning systems.

 5. Architectural plans, including floor plans, elevations and door and finish schedules showing location of all doors, windows, mechanical equipment, shafts, pipes, vents and ducts.

 6. Structural plans, including foundation plan and framing plans.

 7. Cross-sections and construction details for both architectural and structural plans including wall sections, foundation, floor and roof details, connections of structural members and types of construction material.

 8. Topographic plans, including original and final contours, location of all buildings and structures on and, when required by the building official, adjacent to the site, and cubic yards of cut and fill.

 A survey of the property prepared by a land surveyor licensed by the State of Washington shall be required for all new construction, and for additions or accessory buildings where the building official has reason to believe that there may be an intrusion into required open areas or over the property line.

 9. Where any building or structure is to be erected or constructed on property abutting an unimproved or partially improved street or alley, such plans shall also include a profile showing the established or proposed grade of such street or alley, based upon information obtained from the Director of Transportation relating to the proposed finished elevations of the property and improvements thereon.

 106.5.2.5 Information on first sheet. The first or general note sheet of each set of plans shall specify the following, as applicable:

 1. The building and street address of the work.

 2. The name and address of the owner and person who prepared the plans.

 3. Legal description of the property.

 4. Type of occupancy of all parts of the building as defined in this code including notation of fixed fire protection devices or systems.

 5. Zoning classification of the property and existing and proposed uses of the structure as defined in the Land Use Code.

 6. Indication of location within the fire district as defined in this code, if applicable.

 7. Type of construction as defined in this code.

 8. Number of stories and basements as defined in this code.

 9. Variances, conditional uses, special exceptions, including project numbers, approval and approval extension dates.

 10. Where applicable, a description of the design selected and approved at a Section 403 highrise building pre-design conference, a Section 404 atrium pre-design conference, a Section 414.1.4 hazardous occupancy pre-design conference, a Section 1614.6 seismic design pre- design conference or a similar conference on a building subject to Fire Code Chapter 93.

 106.5.2.6 Structural notes. Plans submitted for buildings with an occupant load of 50 or more, buildings of more than two stories, buildings of more than 4,500 square feet total floor area or buildings or other structures that are determined by the building official to embody hazards or complex structural concepts shall include applicable information including, but not limited to, the following:

 1. Design loads: Snow load, live loads and lateral loads.

 When required by the building official, the structural notes for plans engineered to Chapter 9 of ASCE 7 shall include the factors of the base shear formula used in the design;

 2. Foundations: Foundation investigations, allowable bearing pressure for spread footings, allowable load capacity of piles, lateral earth pressure;

 3. Masonry: Type and strength of units, strength or proportions of mortar and grout, type and strength of reinforcement, method of testing, design strength;

 4. Wood: Species or species groups, and grades of sawn lumber, glued-laminated lumber, plywood and assemblies, type of fasteners;

 5. Concrete: Design strengths, mix designs, type and strength of reinforcing steel, welding of reinforcing steel, restrictions, if any;

 6. Steel and aluminum: Specification types, grades and strengths, welding electrode types and strengths;

 7. Assignment of responsibilities for inspection and testing during construction, and the degree of inspection and testing;

 In lieu of detailed structural notes the building official may approve minor references on the plans to a specific section or part of this code or other ordinances or laws.

 106.5.2.7 Fire-resistive notes. The building official may require that plans for buildings more than two stories in height of other than Groups R, Division 3 and U Occupancies indicate how required structural and fire-resistive integrity will be maintained where a penetration will be made for electrical, mechanical, plumbing and communication conduits, pipes and similar systems.

 The building official may require that, when required for fire- resistive construction, the method of installation of wall and ceiling coverings and the protection of structural parts be specified on the plans unless the listing which documents the rating specifies a method no more restrictive than the minimum standards of Chapter 7.

 106.5.3 Construction inspection notes. The engineer or architect of record shall include in the final permit documents the following:

 1. Special inspections required by Section 1704.

 2. Other structural inspections required by the engineer or architect of record.

 * * *

 Section New definitions of "nightclub" and "small residential building" are added to Section 202 of the Seattle Building Code as follows:

 * * *

[W] NIGHTCLUB. An establishment, other than a theater with fixed seating, which includes all of the following:  1. Provides live entertainment by paid performing artists or by way of recorded music conducted by a person employed or engaged to do so;

 2. Has as its primary source of revenue the sale of beverages of any kind for consumption on the premises and/or cover charges;

 3. Has an occupant load of 100 or more as determined by the fire code official; and

 4. Includes assembly space without fixed seats considered concentrated or standing space per Table 1004.1.2.

 Paid performing artists are those entertainers engaged to perform in a for-profit business establishment.

 * * *

SMALL RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. Single-family residences; and multifamily buildings that consist of four or fewer units, do not exceed two stories in height, and are less than five thousand square feet in area.

 * * *

 Section Table 307.7(1) of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 For SI: 1 cubic foot = 0.023 m3, 1 pound = 0.454 kg, 1 gallon = 3.785 L.

 a. For use of control areas, see Section 414.2.

 b. The aggregate quantity in use and storage shall not exceed the quantity listed for storage.

 c. The quantities of alcoholic beverages in retail and wholesale sales occupancies shall not be limited providing the liquids are packaged in individual containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons. In retail and wholesale sales occupancies, the quantities of medicines, foodstuffs, consumer or industrial products, and cosmetics containing not more than 50 percent by volume of water-miscible liquids with the remainder of the solutions not being flammable, shall not be limited, provided that such materials are packaged in individual containers not exceeding 1.3 gallons.

 d. Maximum allowable quantities shall be increased 100 percent in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. Where Note e also applies, the increase for both notes shall be applied accumulatively.

 e. Maximum allowable quantities shall be increased 100 percent when stored in approved storage cabinets, gas cabinets, exhausted enclosures or safety cans as specified in the International Fire Code. Where Note d also applies, the increase for both notes shall be applied accumulatively.

 f. The permitted quantities shall not be limited in a building equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.

 g. Permitted only in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.

 h. Containing not more than the maximum allowable quantity per control area of Class IA, IB or IC flammable liquids.

 i. ~~Inside a building, the maximum capacity of a combustible liquid storage system that is connected to a fuel-oil piping system shall be 660 gallons provided such system conforms to the International Fire Code.~~A maximum quantity of 660 gallons of combustible liquid is allowed in one single control area when in a tank connected to a generator or other fuel oil system provided such tank is installed in accordance with Chapter 34 of the Seattle Fire Code.

 j. Quantities in parenthesis indicate quantity units in parenthesis at the head of each column.

 k. A maximum quantity of 200 pounds of solid or 20 gallons of liquid Class 3 oxidizers is allowed when such materials are necessary for maintenance purposes, operation or sanitation of equipment~~. Storage~~when the storage containers and the manner of storage ~~shall be~~are approved.

 l. Net weight of the pyrotechnic composition of the fireworks. Where the net weight of the pyrotechnic composition of the fireworks is not known, 25 percent of the gross weight of the fireworks, including packaging, shall be used.

 m. For gallons of liquids, divide the amount in pounds by 10 in accordance with Section 2703.1.2 of the International Fire Code.

 n. For storage and display quantities in Group M and storage quantities in Group S occupancies complying with Section 414.2.4, see Table 414.2.4.

o. The closed use maximum allowable quantity is allowed to be exceeded in a single control area when combustible liquids are contained within a protected aboveground tank system installed in accordance with SFD Administrative Rule 34.01.04 Use of Protected Aboveground Tanks for Fuel Storage Inside Buildings.

 Section Subsection 403.11 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 403

 HIGH-RISE BUILDINGS

 ***

 403.11 Emergency power systems. An emergency power system complying with Section 2702 and Section 403.11.2 shall be provided for emergency power loads specified in Section 403.11.1.

 403.11.1 Emergency power loads. The following are classified as emergency power loads:

 1. Exit signs and means of egress illumination required by Chapter 10;

 2. Elevator car lighting;

 3. Emergency voice/alarm communications systems;

 4. Automatic fire detection systems;

 5. Fire alarm systems;

 6. Power and lighting for mechanical equipment rooms and the fire command center required by Section 403.8;

 7. Electrically powered fire pumps;

 8. Ventilation and automatic fire detection equipment for smokeproof enclosures;

 9. Smoke control system; and

 10. A selected elevator in each bank, in accordance with Section 3016.6. A bank of elevators is a group of elevators or a single elevator controlled by a common operating system-all elevators that respond to a single call button constitute a bank of elevators. All elevators shall be transferable to emergency power.

 Note: There is no limit on the number of cars that may be in a bank, but there may not be more than four cars within a common hoistway. See Section 3016.7.

403.11.2 Special requirements for emergency power systems. If the emergency system is a generator set inside a building, the system shall be located in a separate room enclosed with 2-hour fire- resistance-rated fire barrier assemblies. System supervision with manual start and transfer features shall be provided at the fire command center.  Exception: A generator set with a fuel tank system not exceeding 660 gallons is not required to be located in a rated room when installed in a sprinklered parking garage of Type I or II construction, unless a 1-hour separation is required to separate control areas in accordance with Table 307.7(1).

***

 Section Subsection 406.3 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 406

 MOTOR-VEHICLE-RELATED OCCUPANCIES

 ***

 406.3 Open parking garages.

 406.3.1 Scope. Except where specific provisions are made in the following subsections, other requirements of this code shall apply.

 406.3.2 Definitions. The following words and terms shall, for the purposes of this chapter and as used elsewhere in this code, have the meanings shown herein.

 MECHANICAL-ACCESS OPEN PARKING GARAGES. Open parking garages employing parking machines, lifts, elevators or other mechanical devices for vehicles moving from and to street level and in which public occupancy is prohibited above the street level.

 OPEN PARKING GARAGE. A structure or portion of a structure with the openings as described in Section 406.3.3.1 on two or more sides that is used for the parking or storage of private motor vehicles as described in Section 406.3.4.

 RAMP-ACCESS OPEN PARKING GARAGES. Open parking garages employing a series of continuously rising floors or a series of interconnecting ramps between floors permitting the movement of vehicles under their own power from and to the street level.

 406.3.3 Construction. Open parking garages shall be of Type I, II or IV construction. Open parking garages shall meet the design requirements of Chapter 16. For vehicle barriers, see Section 406.2.4.

 406.3.3.1 Openings. For natural ventilation purposes, the exterior side of the structures shall have uniformly distributed openings on two or more sides. The area of such openings in exterior walls on a tier must be at least 20 percent of the total perimeter wall area of each tier. The aggregate length of the openings considered to be providing natural ventilation shall constitute a minimum of 40 percent of the perimeter of the tier. Interior walls shall be at least 20 percent open with uniformly distributed openings.

 Exception: Openings are not required to be distributed over 40 percent of the building perimeter where the required openings are uniformly distributed over two opposing sides of the building.

 406.3.4 Uses. Mixed uses shall be allowed in the same building as an open parking garage subject to the provisions of Sections 302.3, 402.7.1, 406.3.13, 508.3, 508.4 and 508.7.

 406.3.5 Area and height. Area and height of open parking garages shall be limited as set forth in Chapter 5 for Group S-2 occupancies and as further provided for in Section 302.3.

 406.3.5.1 Single use. When the open parking garage is used exclusively for the parking or storage of private motor vehicles, with no other uses in the building, the area and height shall be permitted to comply with Table 406.3.5, along with increases allowed by Section 406.3.6

 Exception: The grade-level tier is permitted to contain an office, waiting and toilet rooms having a total combined area of not more than 1,000 square feet (93 m2). Such area need not be separated from the open parking garage.

 In open parking garages having a spiral or sloping floor, the horizontal projection of the structure at any cross section shall not exceed the allowable area per parking tier. In the case of an open parking garage having a continuous spiral floor, each 9 feet 6 inches (2896 mm) of height, or portion thereof, shall be considered a tier.

 The clear height of a parking tier shall not be less than 6 foot 6 inches (1981 mm)~~7 feet (2134 mm)~~, except that a lower clear height is permitted in mechanical-access open parking garages where approved by the building official.

 406.3.6 Area and height increases. The allowable area and height of open parking garages shall be increased in accordance with the provisions of this section. Garages with sides open on three-fourths of the building perimeter are permitted to be increased by 25 percent in area and one tier in height. Garages with sides open around the entire building perimeter are permitted to be increased 50 percent in area and one tier in height. For a side to be considered open under the above provisions, the total area of openings along the side shall not be less than 50 percent of the interior area of the side at each tier, and such openings shall be equally distributed along the length of the tier.

 Allowable tier areas in Table 406.3.5 shall be increased for open parking garages constructed to heights less than the table maximum. The gross tier area of the garage shall not exceed that permitted for the higher structure. At least three sides of each such larger tier shall have continuous horizontal openings not less than 30 inches (762 mm) in clear height extending for at least 80 percent of the length of the sides, and no part of such larger tier shall be more than 200 feet (60 960 mm) horizontally from such an opening. In addition, each such opening shall face a street or yard accessible to a street with a width of at least 30 feet (9144 mm) for the full length of the opening, and standpipes shall be provided in each such tier.

 Open parking garages of Type IB and II construction, with all sides open, shall be unlimited in allowable area where the height does not exceed 75 feet (22 860 mm). For a side to be considered open, the total area of openings along the side shall not be less than 50 percent of the interior area of the side of each tier, and such openings shall be equally distributed along the length of the tier. All portions of tiers shall be within 200 feet (60 960 mm) horizontally from such openings.

 406.3.7 Location on property. Exterior walls and openings in exterior walls shall comply with Tables 601 and 602. The distance from an adjacent lot line shall be determined in accordance with Table 602 and Section 704.

 406.3.8 Means of egress. Where persons other than parking attendants are permitted, open parking garages shall meet the means of egress requirements of Chapter 10. Where no persons other than parking attendants are permitted, there shall not be less than two 36-inch wide (914 mm) exit stairways. Lifts shall be permitted to be installed for use of employees only, provided they are completely enclosed by noncombustible materials.

 406.3.9 Standpipes. Standpipes shall be installed where required by the provisions of Chapter 9.

 406.3.10 Sprinkler systems. Where required by other provisions or this code, automatic sprinkler systems and standpipes shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 9.

 406.3.11 Enclosure of vertical openings. Enclosure shall not be required for vertical openings except as specified in Section 406.3.8.

 406.3.12 Ventilation. Ventilation, other than the percentage of openings specified in Section 406.3.3.1, shall not be required.

 406.3.13 Prohibitions. The following uses and alterations are not permitted:

 1. Vehicle repair work.

 2. Parking of buses, trucks and similar vehicles.

 3. Partial or complete closing of required openings in exterior walls by tarpaulins or any other means.

 4. Dispensing of fuel.

 TABLE 406.3.5

 OPEN PARKING GARAGES AREA AND HEIGHT

 TYPE OF AREA PER TIER CONSTRUCTION (square feet) HEIGHT (in tiers)

 Ramp access Mechanical access

 Automatic sprinkler system

 No Yes

 IA Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited

 IB Unlimited 12 tiers 12 tiers 18 tiers

 IIA 50,000 10 tiers 10 tiers 15 tiers

 IIB 50,000 8 tiers 8 tiers 12 tiers

 IV 50,000 4 tiers 4 tiers 4 tiers For SI: 1 square foot = 0.0929 m2.

 * * *

 Section A new subsection 407.8 is added to the Seattle Building Code as follows:

 SECTION 407

 GROUP I-2

 ***

 [W] 407.8 Locks on exit doors. Approved, listed locks without delayed egress shall be permitted in nursing homes or portions of nursing homes, provided that:

 1. The clinical needs of one or more patients require specialized security measures for their safety.

 2. The doors unlock upon actuation of an automatic sprinkler system or automatic fire detection system.

 3. The doors unlock upon loss of electrical power controlling the lock or lock mechanism.

 4. The lock shall be capable of being deactivated by a signal from a switch located in an approved location.

 5. There is a system, such as a keypad and code, in place to allow visitors, staff persons and appropriate residents to exit. Instructions for exiting shall be posted within six feet of the door.

 Section Subsections 903.2 and 903.3 of the Seattle Building Code are amended as follows:

 SECTION 903

 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS

 * * *

 [F] 903.2 Where required. Approved automatic sprinkler systems in new buildings and structures shall be provided in the locations described in this section.

 Exception: Spaces or areas used exclusively for telecommunications equipment, associated electrical power distribution equipment, and batteries, provided those spaces or areas are equipped throughout with an automatic smoke detection system and are separated from the remainder of the building by a wall with a fire-resistance rating of not less than 1 hour and a floor/ceiling assembly with a fire- resistance rating of not less than 2 hours.

 [F] 903.2.1 Group A. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout buildings and portions thereof used as Group A occupancies as provided in this section. For Group A-1, A-2, A-3 and A-4 occupancies, the automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout the floor area where the Group A-1, A-2, A-3 or A-4 occupancy is located, and in all floors between the Group A occupancy and the level of exit discharge. For Group A-5 occupancies, the automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in the spaces indicated in Section 903.2.1.5.

 [F] 903.2.1.1 Group A-1. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for Group A-1 occupancies where one of the following conditions exists:

 1. The fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m2).

 2. The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more.

 3. The fire area is located on a floor other than the level of exit discharge.

 4. The fire area contains a multitheater complex.

 [F] 903.2.1.2 Group A-2. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for Group A-2 occupancies where one of the following conditions exists:

 1. The fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet (464.5 m2).

 2. The fire area has an occupant load of 100 or more.

 3. The fire area is located on a floor other than the level of exit discharge.

 Exception: Item 3 does not apply to fire areas that include space located one floor above the level of exit discharge where the occupant load of the upper floor is less than 50.

 [F] 903.2.1.3 Group A-3. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for Group A-3 occupancies where one of the following conditions exists:

 1. The fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m2).

 2. The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more.

 3. The fire area is located on a floor other than the level of exit discharge.

 Exception: Areas used exclusively as participant sports areas where the main floor area is located at the same level as the level of exit discharge of the main entrance and exit.

 [F] 903.2.1.4 Group A-4. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for Group A-4 occupancies where one of the following conditions exists:

 1. The fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m2).

 2. The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more.

 3. The fire area is located on a floor other than the level of exit discharge.

 Exception: Areas used exclusively as participant sports areas where the main floor area is located at the same level as the level of exit discharge of the main entrance and exit.

 [F] 903.2.1.5 Group A-5. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in concession stands, retail areas, press boxes and other accessory use areas in excess of 1,000 square feet (93 m2).

[W] 903.2.1.6 Nightclubs. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout an occupancy with a nightclub. Existing nightclubs constructed prior to July 1, 2006 shall be provided with automatic sprinklers not later than December 1, 2007. The fire code official, for the application of this rule, may establish an occupant load based on the observed use of the occupancy in accordance with Table 1004.1.2.

[F] 903.2.2 Group E. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for Group E occupancies as follows:

 1. Throughout all Group E fire areas greater than 20,000 square feet (1858 m2) in area.

 2. Throughout every portion of educational buildings below the level of exit discharge.

 Exception: An automatic sprinkler system is not required in any fire area or area below the level of exit discharge where every classroom throughout the building has at least one exterior exit door at ground level.

 3. Throughout all newly constructed Group E Occupancies having an occupant load of 50 or more for more than 12 hours per week or four hours in any one day.

 Exceptions:

 1. Automatic sprinkler systems are not required in portable school classrooms , provided aggregate areas of clusters of portable school classrooms does not exceed 5,000 squire feet (1465m2); and clusters of portable school classrooms shall be separated as required in Chapter 5 of the Building Code.

 2. Automatic sprinkler systems are not required in Group E day care.

 [F] 903.2.3 Group F-1. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all buildings containing a Group F-1 occupancy where one of the following conditions exists:

 1. Where a Group F-1 fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m2);

 2. Where a Group F-1 fire area is located more than three stories above grade; or

 3. Where the combined area of all Group F-1 fire areas on all floors, including any mezzanines, exceeds 24,000 square feet (2230 m2).

 [F] 903.2.3.1 Woodworking operations. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all Group F-1 occupancy fire areas that contain woodworking operations in excess of 2,500 square feet (232 m2) in area which generate finely divided combustible waste or use finely divided combustible materials.

 [F] 903.2.4 Group H. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be provided in high-hazard occupancies as required in Sections 903.2.4.1 through 903.2.4.3.

 [F] 903.2.4.1 General. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in Group H occupancies.

 [F] 903.2.4.2 Group H-5. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout buildings containing Group H-5 occupancies. The design of the sprinkler system shall not be less than that required by this code for the occupancy hazard classifications in accordance with Table 903.2.4.2. Where the design area of the sprinkler system consists of a corridor protected by one row of sprinklers, the maximum number of sprinklers required to be calculated is 13.

 [F] 903.2.4.3 Pyroxylin plastics. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in buildings, or portions thereof, where cellulose nitrate film or pyroxylin plastics are manufactured, stored or handled in quantities exceeding 100 pounds (45 kg).

 [F]Table 903.2.4.2

 GROUP H-5 SPRINKLER DESIGN CRITERIA

 LOCATION OCCUPANCY HAZARD CLASSIFICATION

 Fabrication areas Ordinary Hazard Group 2

 Service corridors Ordinary Hazard Group 2

 Storage rooms without dispensing Ordinary Hazard Group 2

 Storage rooms with dispensing Extra Hazard Group 2

 Corridors Ordinary Hazard Group 2

 [F] 903.2.5.1 Group I. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout buildings with a Group I fire area.

 Exception: An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3 shall be allowed in Group I-1 facilities.

 903.2.5.2 Group LC. An automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3 shall be provided throughout all buildings with a Group LC fire area.

 Exception: An automatic sprinkler system need not be installed in any Group LC Occupancy licensed for six or fewer clients.

 [F] 903.2.6 Group M. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout buildings containing a Group M occupancy where one of the following conditions exists:

 1. Where a Group M fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m2);

 2. Where a Group M fire area is located more than three stories above grade; or

 3. Where the combined area of all Group M fire areas on all floors, including any mezzanines, exceeds 24,000 square feet (2230 m2).

 [F] 903.2.6.1 High-piled storage. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in accordance with the International Fire Code in all buildings of Group M where storage of merchandise is in high-piled or rack storage arrays.

 [F] 903.2.7 Group R. An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3 shall be provided throughout all buildings with a Group R fire area.

 Exception: Sprinkler systems are not required in buildings complying with the International Residential Code and Chapter 5 of the International Fire Code.

 [F] 903.2.8 Group S-1. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all buildings containing a Group S-1 occupancy where one of the following conditions exists:

 1. A Group S-1 fire area exceeds 12,000 square feet (1115 m?);

 2. A Group S-1 fire area is located more than three stories above grade; or

 3. The combined area of all Group S-1 fire areas on all floors, including any mezzanines, exceeds 24,000 square feet (2230 m?).

 [F] 903.2.8.1 Repair garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all buildings used as repair garages in accordance with Section 406, as shown:

 1. Buildings two or more stories in height, including basements, with a fire area containing a repair garage exceeding 10,000 square feet (929 m2).

 2. One-story buildings with a fire area containing a repair garage exceeding 12,000 square feet (1115 m2).

 3. Buildings with a repair garage servicing vehicles parked in the basement.

 [F] 903.2.8.2 Bulk storage of tires. Buildings and structures where the area for the storage of tires exceeds 20,000 cubic feet (566 m3) shall be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.

 903.2.8.3 Liquor Warehouses. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in liquor warehouses.

 Interpretation I903.2.8: Stockrooms of retail liquor sales outlets are not liquor warehouses.

 [F] 903.2.9 Group S-2. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout buildings classified as enclosed parking garages in accordance with Section 406.4 or where located beneath other groups.

 Exception: Enclosed parking garages located beneath Group R-3 occupancies as applicable in Section 101.2.

 [F] 903.2.9.1 Commercial parking garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout buildings used for storage of commercial trucks or buses where the fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet (464 m2).

 [F] 903.2.10 All occupancies except Groups R-3 and U. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in the locations set forth in Sections 903.2.10.1 through 903.2.10.1.3.

 Exception: Group R-3 as applicable in Section 101.2 and Group U.

 [F] 903.2.10.1 Stories and basements without openings. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout every story or basement of all buildings where the floor area exceeds 1,500 square feet (139.4 m2) and where there is not provided at least one of the following types of exterior wall openings:

 1. Openings below grade that lead directly to ground level by an exterior stairway complying with Section 1009 or an outside ramp complying with Section 1010. Openings shall be located in each 50 linear feet (15 240 mm), or fraction thereof, of exterior wall in the story on at least one side.

 2. Openings entirely above the adjoining ground level totaling at least 20 square feet (1.86 m2) in each 50 linear feet (15 240 mm), or fraction thereof, of exterior wall in the story on at least one side.

 [F] 903.2.10.1.1 Opening dimensions and access. Openings shall have minimum height and width of not less than 30 inches (762 mm). Such openings shall be accessible to the fire department from the exterior and shall not be obstructed in a manner that fire fighting or rescue cannot be accomplished from the exterior.

 [F] 903.2.10.1.2 Openings on one side only. Where openings in a story are provided on only one side and the opposite wall of such story is more than 75 feet (22 860 mm) from such openings, the story shall be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system, or openings as specified above shall be provided on at least two sides of the story.

 [F] 903.2.10.1.3 Basements. Where any portion of a basement is located more than 75 feet (22 860 mm) from openings required by Section 903.2.10.1, the basement shall be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system.

 [F] 903.2.10.2 Rubbish and linen chutes. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed at the top of rubbish and linen chutes and in their terminal rooms. Chutes extending through three or more floors shall have additional sprinkler heads installed within such chutes at alternate floors. Chute sprinklers shall be accessible for servicing.

 [F] 903.2.10.3 Buildings over 55 feet in height. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout buildings with a floor level having an occupant load of 30 or more that is located 55 feet (16 764 mm) or more above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access.

 Exceptions:

 1. Airport control towers.

 2. Open parking structures.

 3. Occupancies in Group F-2.

 903.2.10.4 Basement storage and sale of combustible materials. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout basements that are not stories above grade plane that are used for storage or sale of combustible materials.

 Exceptions:

 1. Sprinklers are not required in portions of the basement not containing combustible materials and protected by a fire barrier with at least a one-hour fire-resistance rating.

 2. Sprinklers are not required in storage rooms meeting the following criteria:

 2.1. The area of the room does not exceed 500 square feet;

 2.2. The room is protected by a fire barrier with at least a one-hour fire-resistance rating;

 2.3. The room contains no material classified as a flammable liquid, hazardous material or highly combustible material;

 2.4. The room is served by exterior fire access or interior access by a one-hour fire-resistance rated corridor.

 2.5 No more than three such rooms are permitted in any one basement.

 [F] 903.2.11 During construction. Automatic sprinkler systems required during construction, alteration and demolition operations shall be provided in accordance with the International Fire Code.

 [F] 903.2.12 Other hazards. Automatic sprinkler protection shall be provided for the hazards indicated in Sections 903.2.12.1 and 903.2.12.2.

 [F] 903.2.12.1 Ducts conveying hazardous exhausts. Where required by the International Mechanical Code, automatic sprinklers shall be provided in ducts conveying hazardous exhaust, or flammable or combustible materials.

 Exception: Ducts in which the largest cross-sectional diameter of the duct is less than 10 inches (254 mm).

 [F] 903.2.12.2 Commercial cooking operations. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in commercial kitchen exhaust hood and duct system where an automatic sprinkler system is used to comply with Section 904.

 [F] 903.2.13 Other required suppression systems. In addition to the requirements of Section 903.2, the provisions indicated in Table 903.2.13 also require the installation of a suppression system for certain buildings and areas.

 [F] TABLE 903.2.13

 ADDITIONAL REQUIRED SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS

 SECTION SUBJECT

 402.8 Covered malls

 403.2, 403.3 High-rise buildings

 404.3 Atriums

 405.3 Underground structures

 407.5 Group I-2

 410.6 Stages

 411.4 Special amusement buildings

 412.2.5, 412.2.6 Aircraft hangars

 415.7.2.4 Group H-2

 416.4 Flammable finishes

 417.4 Drying rooms

 507 Unlimited area buildings

 IFC Sprinkler requirements as set forth in Section 903.2.13 of the International Fire Code

 [F] 903.3 Installation requirements. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be designed and installed in accordance with Sections 903.3.1 through 903.3.7.

 [F] 903.3.1 Standards. Sprinkler systems shall be designed and installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3 and rules promulgated by the building official and fire code official.

 [F] 903.3.1.1 NFPA 13 sprinkler systems. Where the provisions of this code require that a building or portion thereof be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, sprinklers shall be installed throughout in accordance with NFPA 13 except as provided in Section 903.3.1.1.1.

 [F] 903.3.1.1.1 Exempt locations. Automatic sprinklers shall not be required in the following rooms or areas where such rooms or areas are protected with an approved automatic fire detection system in accordance with Section 907.2 that will respond to visible or invisible particles of combustion. Sprinklers shall not be omitted from any room merely because it is damp, of fire-resistance-rated construction or contains electrical equipment.

 1. Any room where the application of water, or flame and water, constitutes a serious life or fire hazard when approved by the fire code official.

 2. Any room or space where sprinklers are considered undesirable because of the nature of the contents, when approved by the fire code official.

 3. Generator and transformer rooms separated from the remainder of the building by walls and floor/ceiling or roof/ceiling assemblies having a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2 hours.

 4. In rooms or areas that are of noncombustible construction with wholly noncombustible contents.

 [F] 903.3.1.2 NFPA 13R sprinkler systems. Where allowed in LC Occupancies and buildings of Group R, up to and including four stories in height, automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed throughout in accordance with NFPA 13R.

[F] 903.3.1.2.1 Balconies. Sprinkler protection shall be provided for exterior balconies and ground-floor patios of dwelling units where the building is of Type V construction. Sidewall sprinklers that are used to protect such areas shall be permitted to be located such that their deflectors are within 1 inch (25 mm) to 6 inches (152 mm) below the structural members, and a maximum distance of 14 inches (356 mm) below the deck of the exterior balconies that are constructed of open wood joist construction.

[F] 903.3.1.3 NFPA 13D sprinkler systems. Where allowed, automatic sprinkler systems in one- and two-family dwellings shall be installed throughout in accordance with NFPA 13D. When approved by the fire code official, sprinkler systems in accordance with NFPA 13D may be installed in townhouses where each unit has its own water service, no unit is located above any other unit or common space, and each unit and contiguous attic and crawl spaces are separated from other units by at least a one-hour fire partition.

 [F] 903.3.2 Quick-response and residential sprinklers. Where automatic sprinkler systems are required by this code, quick-response or residential automatic sprinklers shall be installed in the following areas in accordance with Section 903.3.1 and their listings:

 1. Throughout all spaces within a smoke compartment containing patient sleeping units in Group I-2 in accordance with this code.

 2. Dwelling units, and sleeping units in Group R, LC and I-1 occupancies.

 3. Light-hazard occupancies as defined in NFPA 13.

 [F] 903.3.3 Obstructed locations. Automatic sprinklers shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 13 obstruction criteria and the listing of the sprinkler. In addition, automatic sprinklers shall be installed in or under covered kiosks, displays, booths, concession stands, or equipment that exceeds 4 feet (1219 mm) in width and depth. Not less than a 3-foot (914 mm) clearance shall be maintained between automatic sprinklers and the top of piles of combustible fibers.

 Exceptions:

 1. Kitchen equipment under exhaust hoods protected with a fire-extinguishing system in accordance with Section 904.

 2. Temporary covered booths, kiosks, or concession stands less than 300 square feet in area that are in spaces operating under a temporary place of assembly permit.

 [F] 903.3.4 Actuation. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be automatically actuated unless specifically provided for in this code.

 [F] 903.3.5 Water supplies. Water supplies for automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this section and the standards referenced in Section 903.3.1. The potable water supply shall be protected against backflow in accordance with the requirements of this section and the Uniform Plumbing Code.

 [F] 903.3.5.1 Domestic services. Where the domestic service provides the water supply for the automatic sprinkler system, the supply shall be in accordance with this section.

 [F] 903.3.5.1.1 Limited area sprinkler systems. Limited area sprinkler systems serving fewer than 20 sprinklers on any single connection are permitted to be connected to the domestic service where a wet automatic standpipe is not available. Limited area sprinkler systems connected to domestic water supplies shall comply with each of the following requirements:

 1. Valves shall not be installed between the domestic water riser control valve and the sprinklers.

 Exception: An approved indicating control valve supervised in the open position in accordance with Section 903.4.

 2. The domestic service shall be capable of supplying the simultaneous domestic demand and the sprinkler demand required to be hydraulically calculated by NFPA 13, NFPA 13R or NFPA 13D.

 [F] 903.3.5.1.2 Combination services. A single combination water supply shall be permitted for buildings that are not high-rise buildings provided that the domestic demand is added to the sprinkler demand as required by NFPA 13R.

 [F] 903.3.5.2 Secondary water supply. A secondary on-site water supply of at least 15,000 gallons automatically available to the sprinkler system shall be provided for high-rise buildings

 Exception: Existing buildings, including those undergoing substantial alteration.

 [F] 903.3.6 Hose threads. Fire hose threads used in connection with automatic sprinkler systems shall be approved and compatible with fire department hose threads.

 [F] 903.3.7 Fire department connections. The location of fire department connections shall be approved by the building official.

 [F] 903.3.7.1 Locking fire department connection (FDC) caps. The fire code official is authorized to require locking FDC caps on fire department connections for water-based fire protection systems where the responding fire department carries appropriate key wrenches for removal.

~~903.3.8 System Type. Sprinkler systems protecting dwelling units and sleeping units shall be wet pipe systems.~~

~~903.3.9 Balconies. Sprinkler protection shall be provided for exterior balconies and ground-floor patios of dwelling units in buildings with combustible siding when either:~~a. The balcony or patio is recessed 4 feet or more into the building; or

 b. The roof or balcony above exceeds 4 feet in depth; or

 c. The deck is enclosed. A deck is considered enclosed if less than 25% of its perimeter is open to the exterior. Solid railings less than 4 feet in height are not considered enclosures.

 Sprinklers shall be provided in storage closets on decks.

 * * *

 Section Subsection 905.3 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 905

 STANDPIPE SYSTEMS

 ***

 [F] 905.3 Required installations. Standpipe systems shall be installed where required by Sections 905.3.1 through 905.3.6 and in the locations indicated in Sections 905.4, 905.5 and 905.6. Standpipe systems are permitted to be combined with automatic sprinkler systems.

 Exception: Standpipe systems are not required in Group R-3 occupancies as applicable in Section 101.2.

 [F] 905.3.1 Building height. Class III standpipe systems shall be installed throughout buildings where the floor level of the highest story is located more than 30 feet (9144 mm) above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access, or where the floor level of the lowest story is located more than 30 feet (9144 mm) below the highest level of fire department vehicle access.

 Exceptions:

 1. Class I standpipes are allowed in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2.

 2. Class I manual standpipes are allowed in open parking garages where the highest floor is located not more than 150 feet (45 720 mm) above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access.

 3. Class I manual dry standpipes are allowed in open parking garages that are subject to freezing temperatures, provided that the hose connections are located as required for Class II standpipes in accordance with Section 905.5.

 4. Class I standpipes are allowed in basements equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system.

5. Standpipe systems are not required in townhouses.

[F] 905.3.2 Group A. Class I automatic or manual wet standpipes shall be provided in nonsprinklered Group A buildings having an occupant load exceeding 1,000 persons.

 Exceptions:

 1. Open-air-seating spaces without enclosed spaces.

 2. Class I manual dry standpipes are allowed in areas subject to freezing.

 [F] 905.3.3 Covered mall buildings. A covered mall building shall be equipped throughout with a Class I manual standpipe system. Hose connections shall be provided at each of the following locations:

 1. Within the mall at the entrance to each exit passageway or corridor.

 2. At each floor-level landing within enclosed stairways opening directly on the mall.

 3. At exterior public entrances to the mall.

 [F] 905.3.4 Stages. Stages greater than 1,000 square feet in area (93 m2) shall be equipped with a Class III wet standpipe system with 1.5- inch and 2.5-inch (38 mm and 64 mm) hose connections on each side of the stage.

 Exception: Where the building or area is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system, the hose connections are allowed to be supplied from the automatic sprinkler system and shall have a flow rate of not less than that required by NFPA 14 for Class III standpipes.

 [F] 905.3.4.1 Hose and cabinet. The 1.5-inch (38 mm) hose connections shall be equipped with sufficient lengths of 1.5-inch (38 mm) hose to provide fire protection for the stage area. Hose connections shall be equipped with an approved adjustable fog nozzle and be mounted in a cabinet or on a rack.

 [F] 905.3.5 Underground buildings. Underground buildings shall be equipped throughout with a Class I automatic wet or manual wet standpipe system.

 [F] 905.3.6 Helistops and heliports. Buildings with a helistop or heliport that are equipped with a standpipe shall extend the standpipe to the roof level on which the helistop or heliport is located in accordance with Section 1107.5 of the International Fire Code.

 * * *

 Section Subsection 907.2.9 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 907

 FIRE ALARM AND DETECTION SYSTEMS

 ***

 [F] 907.2.9 Group R-2. A manual and automatic fire alarm system shall be installed in Group R-2 occupancies where:

 1. Any dwelling unit or sleeping unit is located three or more stories above the lowest level of exit discharge;

 2. Any dwelling unit or sleeping unit is located more than one story below the highest level of exit discharge of exits serving the dwelling unit or sleeping unit; or

 3. The building contains more than 16 dwelling units or sleeping units.

 Exceptions:

1. A fire alarm system is not required in buildings not over two stories in height where all dwelling units or sleeping units and contiguous attic and crawl spaces are separated from each other and public or common areas by at least 1-hour fire partitions and each dwelling unit or sleeping unit has an exit directly to a public way, exit court or yard.

2. A fire alarm system is not required in buildings that do not have interior corridors serving dwelling units and are protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Sections 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, provided that dwelling units either have a means of egress door opening directly to an exterior exit access that leads directly to the exits or are served by open- ended corridors designed in accordance with Section 1022.6, exception 4.  3. A fire alarm system is not required for townhouse structures meeting all of the following criteria:

 3.1. No unit is located above any other unit or common space;

 3.2. Each unit and contiguous attic and crawl spaces are separated from other units by at least a one-hour fire partition;

 3.3. Each unit is provided with an interconnected smoke alarm system that includes heat detectors in the garage; and

 3.4. The sprinkler waterflow switch activates the interconnected smoke alarm and heat detection system within the affected unit.

907.2.9.1 Automatic Detection. Automatic heat detectors shall be provided in all unsprinklered areas not within dwelling units other than attics and crawl spaces.

 * * *

 Section Subsection 1007.4 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1007

 ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS

 * * *

 1007.4 Elevators. An elevator to be considered part of an accessible means of egress shall comply with the emergency operation and signaling device requirements of Section 2.27 of ASME A17.1. ~~Standby~~Legally required standby power shall be provided in accordance with Sections 2702 and ~~3003~~the Seattle Electrical Code. The elevator shall be accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit.

 Exceptions:

 1. Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit in open parking garages.

 2. Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit in buildings and facilities equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2.

 * * *

 Section Subsection 1101.2 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1101

 GENERAL

 ***

 1101.2 Design. Buildings and facilities shall be designed and constructed to be accessible in accordance with this code and ICC A117.1, except those portions of ICC A117.1 amended by this section.

 1101.2.1 (ICC A117.1 Section 403) Landings for walking surfaces. The maximum rise for any run is 30 inches (762 mm). Landings shall be provided at the top and bottom of any run. Landings shall be level and have a minimum dimension measured in the direction of travel of not less than 60 inches (1525 mm).

 1101.2.2 (ICC A117.1 Section 403.5) Clear width of accessible route. Clear width of an accessible route shall comply with ICC A117.1 Table 403.5. For exterior routes of travel, the minimum clear width shall be 44 inches (1118 mm).

 1101.2.3 (ICC A117.1 Section 404.2.9) Door-opening force. Fire doors shall have the minimum opening force allowable by the building official. The maximum force for pushing open or pulling open doors other than fire doors shall be as follows:

 1. Interior hinged door: 5.0 pounds (22.2 N)

 2. Sliding or folding doors: 5.0 pounds (22.2 N)

 At exterior doors where environmental conditions require a closing pressure greater than 8.5 pounds (38 N), power operated doors shall be used within the accessible route of travel.

 These forces do not apply to the force required to retract latch bolts or disengage other devices that hold the door in a closed position.

~~1101.2.4 (ICC A117.1 Section 502.6) Identification of accessible parking spaces. Where accessible parking spaces are required to be identified by signs, the signs shall include the International Symbol of Accessibility complying with ICC A117.1 Section 703.7. Such signs shall be 60 inches (1525 mm) minimum above the floor or ground surface of the parking space, measured to the bottom of the sign. Van accessible parking spaces shall have an additional sign mounted below the International Symbol of Accessibility identifying the spaces as "Van Accessible."~~

1101.2.4 (ICC A117.1 Section 407.4.6.2.2) Arrangement of Elevator Car Buttons. This section is not adopted.

1101.2.5 (ICC A117.1 Sections 603.4 and 604.11 Coat hooks, shelves, dispensers, and other fixtures. Coat hooks provided ~~within toilet rooms~~ shall accommodate a forward reach or side reach complying with ICC A117.1 Section 308. Where provided, shelves shall be installed so that the top of the shelf is 40 inches (1015 mm) maximum above the floor or ground. Drying equipment, towel or other dispensers, and disposal fixtures shall be located 40 inches (1015 mm) maximum above the floor or ground to any rack, operating controls, receptacle or dispenser.

 1101.2.6 (ICC A117.1 Section 604.6) Flush controls. ~~Flush controls shall be hand operated or automatic.~~ Hand operated flush controls for water closets shall be mounted ~~for use from the wide side of the water closet area and~~ not more than 44 inches (1118 mm) above the floor.

~~1101.2.7 (ICC A117.1 Section 604.7) Toilet paper dispensers. Toilet paper dispensers shall comply with ICC A117.1 Section 309.4 and shall be 7 inches (180 mm) minimum and 9 inches (230 mm) maximum in front of the water closet. The outlet of the dispenser shall be 15 inches (380 mm) minimum and 48 inches (1015 mm) maximum above the floor or ground. There shall be a clearance of 1 1/2 inches (38 mm) minimum below and 12 inches (305 mm) minimum above the grab bar. Dispensers shall not be of a type that control delivery, or that do not allow continuous paper flow. Other dispensers, and disposal fixtures shall be located 40 inches (1015 mm) maximum above the floor or ground to any rack, operating controls, receptacle or dispenser.~~1101.2.8 (ICC A117.1 Section 609.2) Grab bars size. Grab bars shall have an outside diameter of not less than 1 1/4 inch (32 mm) nor more than 1 1/2 inches (38 mm) and shall provide a clearance of 1 1/2 inches (38 mm) between the grab bar and the wall.

 1101.2.9 (ICC A117.1 Section ~~703.7.2.1~~703.6.3.1 International Symbol of Accessibility. Where the International Symbol of Accessibility is required, it shall be proportioned complying with ICC A117.1 Figure 703.7.2.1. All interior and exterior signs depicting the International Symbol of Accessibility shall be white on a blue background.

~~1101.2.10 (ICC A117.1 Section 802.8) Lines of sight. Wheelchair spaces shall be located in places with unobstructed sight lines.~~

 1101.2.11 (ICC A117.1 Section 404.3.5) Control switches. Control switches shall be mounted ~~36~~32 to 40 inches above the floor and not less than 18 inches nor more than 36 inches horizontally from the nearest point of travel of the moving doors.

 Section Subsection 1109.2 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1109

 OTHER FEATURES AND FACILITIES.

 ***

 1109.2 Toilet and bathing facilities. ~~Toilet rooms and bathing facilities shall be accessible. Where a floor level is not required to be connected by an accessible route, the only toilet rooms or bathing facilities provided within the facility shall not be located on the inaccessible floor. At least one of each type of fixture, element, control or dispenser in each accessible toilet room and bathing facility shall be accessible.~~Exceptions:

 1. In toilet rooms or bathing facilities accessed only through a private office, not for common or public use, and intended for use by a single occupant, any of the following alternatives are allowed:

 1.1 Doors are permitted to swing into the clear floor space provided the door swing can be reversed to meet the requirements in ICC A117.1,

 1.2 The height requirements for the water closet in ICC A117.1 are not applicable,

 1.3 Grab bars are not required to be installed in a toilet room, provided that reinforcement has been installed in the walls and located so as to permit the installation of such grab bars, and

 1.4 The requirement for height, knee and toe clearance shall not apply to a lavatory.

 2. This section is not applicable to toilet and bathing facilities that serve dwelling units or sleeping units that are not required to be accessible by Section 1107.

 3. Where multiple single-user toilet rooms or bathing facilities are clustered at a single location and contain fixtures in excess of the minimum required number of plumbing fixtures, at least 5 percent, but not less than one room for each use at each cluster, shall be accessible.

 4. Toilet room fixtures that are in excess of those required by Chapter 29 and that are designed for use by children in day care and primary school occupancies.

 5. Where no more than one urinal is provided in a toilet room or bathing facility, the urinal is not required to be accessible.

 6. Toilet rooms that are part of critical care or intensive care patient sleeping rooms are not required to be accessible.

 7. In dwelling units where a separate bathtub and shower are provided in the same room, at least one shall be accessible.

 1109.2.1 Unisex toilet and bathing rooms. In assembly and mercantile occupancies, an accessible unisex toilet room shall be provided where an aggregate of six or more male and female water closets is required. In buildings of mixed occupancy, only those water closets required for the assembly or mercantile occupancy shall be used to determine the unisex toilet room requirement. In recreational facilities where separate-sex bathing rooms are provided, an accessible unisex bathing room shall be provided. Fixtures located within unisex toilet and bathing rooms shall be included in determining the number of fixtures provided in an occupancy.

 Exception: Where each separate-sex bathing room has only one shower or bathtub fixture, a unisex bathing room is not required.

 1109.2.1.1 Standard. Unisex toilet and bathing rooms shall comply with Sections 1109.2.1.2 through 1109.2.1.7 and ICC A117.1.

 1109.2.1.2 Unisex toilet rooms. Unisex toilet rooms shall include only one water closet and only one lavatory. A unisex bathing room in accordance with Section 1109.2.1.3 shall be considered a unisex toilet room.

 Exception: A urinal is permitted to be provided in addition to the water closet in a unisex toilet room.

 1109.2.1.3 Unisex bathing rooms. Unisex bathing rooms shall include only one shower or bathtub fixture. Unisex bathing rooms shall also include one water closet and one lavatory. Where storage facilities are provided for separate-sex bathing rooms, accessible storage facilities shall be provided for unisex bathing rooms.

 1109.2.1.4 Location. Unisex toilet and bathing rooms shall be located on an accessible route. Unisex toilet rooms shall be located not more than one story above or below separate-sex toilet rooms. The accessible route from any separate-sex toilet room to a unisex toilet room shall not exceed 500 feet (152 m).

 1109.2.1.5 Prohibited location. In passenger transportation facilities and airports, the accessible route from separate-sex toilet rooms to a unisex toilet room shall not pass through security checkpoints.

 1109.2.1.6 Clear floor space. Where doors swing into a unisex toilet or bathing room, a clear floor space not less than 30 inches by 48 inches (762 mm by 1219 mm) shall be provided, within the room, beyond the area of the door swing.

 1109.2.1.7 Privacy. Doors to unisex toilet and bathing rooms shall be securable from within the room.

 1109.2.2 Water closet compartment. Where water closet compartments are provided in a toilet room or bathing facility, at least one wheelchair-accessible compartment shall be provided. Where the combined total water closet compartments and urinals provided in a toilet room or bathing facility is six or more, at least one ambulatory-accessible water closet compartment shall be provided in addition to the wheelchair-accessible compartment. Wheelchair- accessible and ambulatory-accessible compartments shall comply with ICC A117.1.

 * * *

 Section Subsection 1109.9 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1109

 OTHER FEATURES AND FACILITIES.

 ***

 1109.9 Detectable warnings. Passenger transit platform edges bordering a drop-off and not protected by platform screens or guards shall have a detectable warning. Curb ramps shall have detectable warnings. ~~Detectable warnings shall extend the full width and depth of the curb ramp.~~

 Exception: Detectable warnings are not required at bus stops.

 * * *

 Section Subsection 1109.12 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1109

 OTHER FEATURES AND FACILITIES

 ***

 1109.12 Service facilities. Service facilities shall provide for accessible features in accordance with Sections 1109.12.1 through 1109.12.5.

 1109.12.1 Dressing, fitting and locker rooms. Where dressing rooms, fitting rooms or locker rooms are provided, at least 5 percent, but not less than one, of each type of use in each cluster provided shall be accessible.

 1109.12.2 Check-out aisles. Where check-out aisles are provided, accessible check-out aisles shall be provided in accordance with Table 1109.12.2. Where check-out aisles serve different functions, at least one accessible check-out aisle shall be provided for each function. Where checkout aisles serve different functions, accessible check-out aisles shall be provided in accordance with Table 1109.12.2 for each function. Where check-out aisles are dispersed throughout the building or facility, accessible check-out aisles shall also be dispersed. Traffic control devices, security devices and turnstiles located in accessible check-out aisles or lanes shall be accessible. ~~Accessible check-out aisles shall be identified by the International Symbol of Accessibility in accordance with ICC A117.1 Section 703.7.2.1.~~

 Exception: Where the area of the selling space is less than 5,000 square feet (465 m2), only one check-out aisle is required to be accessible.

 * * *

 Section Section 1110 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1110

 SIGNAGE

 1110.1 Signs. Required accessible elements shall be identified by the International Symbol of Accessibility at the following locations:

 1. Accessible parking spaces required by Section 1106.1 except where the total number of parking spaces provided is four or less.

 2. Accessible passenger loading zones.

 3. Accessible areas of refuge required by Section 1007.6.

 4. Accessible rooms where multiple single-user toilet or bathing rooms are clustered at a single location.

 5. Accessible entrances where not all entrances are accessible.

 6. Accessible check-out aisles where not all aisles are accessible. The sign, where provided, shall be above the check-out aisle in the same location as the check-out aisle number or type of check-out identification.

 7. Unisex toilet and bathing rooms.

 8. Accessible dressing, fitting and locker rooms where not all such rooms are accessible.

9. Required accessible portable toilets and bathing facilities.

1110.2 Directional signage. Directional signage indicating the route to the nearest like accessible element shall be provided at the following locations. These directional signs shall include the International Symbol of Accessibility:

 1. In accessible building entrances.

 2. In accessible public toilets and bathing facilities.

 3. Elevators not serving an accessible route.

 4. At each separate-sex toilet and bathing room indicating the location of the nearest unisex toilet or bathing room where provided in accordance with Section 1109.2.1.

 5. At exits and elevators serving a required accessible space, but not providing an approved accessible means of egress, signage shall be provided in accordance with Section 1007.7.

1110.3 Informational signs. Signs that provide direction to, or information about, permanent interior spaces of the site and facilities shall contain visual characters complying with ICC A117.1.  Exception: Building directories, personnel names, company or occupant names and logos, menus and temporary (seven days or less) signs are not required to comply with ICC A117.1.

 1110.4 Tactile Designations. Interior and exterior signs identifying permanent rooms and spaces shall be tactile. Where pictograms are provided as designations of interior rooms and spaces, the pictograms shall have tactile text descriptors. Signs required to provide tactile characters and pictograms shall comply with ICC A117.1.

 Exceptions:

 1. Exterior signs that are not located at the door to the space they serve are not required to comply.

 2. Building directories, menus, seat and row designations in assembly areas, occupant names, building addresses and company names and logos are not required to comply.

 3. Signs in parking facilities are not required to comply.

 4. Temporary (seven days or less) signs are not required to comply.

~~1110.3~~1110.5 Other signs. Signage indicating special accessibility provisions shall be provided as shown:

 1. Each assembly area required to comply with Section 1108.2.7 shall provide a sign notifying patrons of the availability of assistive listening systems.

 Exception: Where ticket offices or windows are provided, signs are not required at each assembly area provided that signs are displayed at each ticket office or window informing patrons of the availability of assistive listening systems.

 2. At each door to an egress stairway, exit passageway and exit discharge, signage shall be provided in accordance with Section 1011.3.

 3. At areas of refuge, signage shall be provided in accordance with Sections 1007.6.3 through 1007.6.5.

 4. At areas for assisted rescue, signage shall be provided in accordance with Section 1007.8.3.

5. At bus stops and terminals, signage must be provided in accordance with Section 1113.4.  6. At fixed facilities and stations, signage must be provided in accordance with Sections 1112.2.2 through 1112.2.2.3.

 7. At airports, terminal information systems must be provided in accordance with Section 1114.3.

Section Section 1113 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

~~SECTION 1113~~SIGNAGE

 1113.1 Signs. Required accessible portable toilets and bathing facilities shall be identified by the International Symbol of Accessibility.

 1113.2 Designations. Interior and exterior signs identifying permanent rooms and spaces shall be tactile. Where pictograms are provided as designations of interior rooms and spaces, the pictograms shall have tactile text descriptors. Signs required to provide tactile characters and pictograms shall comply with ICC A117.1.

 Exceptions:

 1. Exterior signs that are not located at the door to the space they serve are not required to comply.

 2. Building directories, menus, seat and row designations in assembly areas, occupant names, building addresses and company names and logos are not required to comply.

 3. Signs in parking facilities are not required to comply.

 4. Temporary (seven days or less) signs are not required to comply.

 1113.3 Directional and informational signs. Signs that provide direction to, or information about, permanent interior spaces of the site and facilities shall contain visual characters complying with ICC A117.1.

 Exception: Building directories, personnel names, company or occupant names and logos, menus and temporary (seven days or less) signs are not required to comply with ICC A117.1.

 1113.4 Other signs. Signage indicating special accessibility provisions shall be provided as follows:

 1. At bus stops and terminals, signage must be provided in accordance with Appendix Section E108.4.

 2. At fixed facilities and stations, signage must be provided in accordance with Sections 1112.2.2 through 1112.2.2.3.

 3. At airports, terminal information systems must be provided in accordance with Appendix Section E110.3.

SECTION 1113  BUS STOPS

 1113.1 General. Bus stops shall comply with Sections 1113.2 through 1113.5.

 1113.2 Bus boarding and alighting areas. Bus boarding and alighting areas shall comply with Sections 1113.2.1 through 1113.2.4.

 1113.2.1 Surface. Bus boarding and alighting areas shall have a firm, stable surface.

 1113.2.2 Dimensions. Bus boarding and alighting areas shall have a clear length of 96 inches (2440 mm) minimum, measured perpendicular to the curb or vehicle roadway edge, and a clear width of 60 inches (1525 mm) minimum, measured parallel to the vehicle roadway.

 1113.2.3 Connection. Bus boarding and alighting areas shall be connected to streets, sidewalks or pedestrian paths by an accessible route complying with Section 1104.

 1113.2.4 Slope. Parallel to the roadway, the slope of the bus boarding and alighting area shall be the same as the roadway, to the maximum extent practicable. For water drainage, a maximum slope of 1:48 perpendicular to the roadway is allowed.

 1113.3 Bus shelters. Where provided, new or replaced bus shelters shall provide a minimum clear floor or ground space complying with ICC A117.1, Section 305, entirely within the shelter. Such shelters shall be connected by an accessible route to the boarding area required by Section 1113.2.

 1113.4 Signs. New bus route identification signs shall have finish and contrast complying with ICC A117.1. Additionally, to the maximum extent practicable, new bus route identification signs shall provide visual characters complying with ICC A117.1.

 Exception: Bus schedules, timetables and maps that are posted at the bus stop or bus bay are not required to meet this requirement.

 1113.5 Bus stop siting. Bus stop sites shall be chosen such that, to the maximum extent practicable, the areas where lifts or ramps are to be deployed comply with Sections 1113.2 and 1113.3.

Section A new Section 1114 is added to the Seattle Building Code to read as follows:

 SECTION 1114

 AIRPORTS

 1114.1 New construction. New construction of airports shall comply with Sections 1114.2 through 1114.4.

 1114.2 TTYs. Where public pay telephones are provided, at least one TTY shall be provided in compliance with ICC A117.1, Section 704.4. Additionally, if four or more public pay telephones are located in a main terminal outside the security areas, a concourse within the security areas or a baggage claim area in a terminal, at least one public TTY complying with ICC A117.1, Section 704.4, shall also be provided in each such location.

 1114.3 Terminal information systems. Where terminal information systems convey audible information to the public, the same or equivalent information shall be provided in a visual format.

 1114.4 Clocks. Where clocks are provided for use by the general public, the clock face shall be uncluttered so that its elements are clearly visible. Hands, numerals and digits shall contrast with their background either light-on-dark or dark-on-light. Where clocks are mounted overhead, numerals and digits shall comply with ICC A117.1, Section 703.4.

 Section Subsection 1205.1 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1205

 LIGHTING

 1205.1 General. Every space intended for human occupancy shall be provided with natural light by means of exterior glazed openings in accordance with Section 1205.2 or~~. In other than Group R occupancies, such spaces~~ shall be ~~permitted to be~~ provided with artificial light in accordance with Section 1205.3 ~~in lieu of natural light~~. Exterior glazed openings shall open directly onto a public way or onto a yard or court in accordance with Section 1206.

~~Exceptions:~~1. Kitchens in Group R Occupancies may be provided with artificial light.

 2. In Group R-1 and R-2 occupancies, artificial light may be provided in lieu of natural light in one habitable room in addition to the kitchen provided:

 2.1 In Group R-2, the room is limited in size to 10 percent of the area of the dwelling unit or 100 square feet (9.29 m2), whichever is larger; and

 2.2 In sleeping units and dwelling units located less than 75 (22 860 mm) feet below the lowest level of fire department vehicle access, the room is not used as a sleeping room.

~~~~* * *

 Section Section 1208 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1208

 INTERIOR SPACE DIMENSIONS

 1208.1 Minimum room widths. Habitable spaces, other than a kitchen, shall not be less than 7 feet (2134 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens shall have a clear passageway of not less than 3 feet (914 mm) between counter fronts and appliances or counter fronts and walls.

 1208.2 Minimum ceiling heights. Habitable rooms, hallways, ~~corridors,~~ bathrooms, toilet rooms, laundry rooms and basements shall have a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet (2134 mm). The required height shall be measured from the finished floor to the lowest projection from the ceiling.

 Exceptions:

 1. Beams and girders spaced not less than 4 feet (1219 mm) on center may project not more than 6 inches (153 mm) below the required ceiling height.

 Interpretation I1208.2: Ducts and architectural features such as soffits and coved ceilings may project not more than 6 inches (153 mm) below the required ceiling height allowed for beams and girders.

 2. ~~Ceilings in basements may project to within 6 feet 8 inches (2032 mm) of the finished floor, and beams, girders, ducts or other obstructions may project to within 6 feet 4 inches (1931 mm) of the finished floor.~~3.

 Not more than 50 percent of the required floor area of a room or space is permitted to have a sloped ceiling less than the prescribed height, with no portion of the required floor area less than 5 feet (1524 mm) in height.

 4 3. The ceiling height along an accessible route of travel, as defined in Chapter 11, shall be at least 79 inches (2007 mm), including allowable projections below the minimum ceiling height.

 1208.3 Room area. Every dwelling unit shall have at least one ~~common~~ room that shall have not less than 120 square feet (13.9 m2) of net floor area. ~~Every room which is used for both cooking and living or both living and sleeping quarters shall have a floor area of not less than 130 square feet (12 m2) if used or intended to be used by only one occupant, or of not less than 150 square feet (14 m2) if used or intended to be used by more than one occupant. Where more than two persons occupy a room used for sleeping purposes, the required floor area shall be increased at the rate of 50 square feet (4.6 m2) for each occupant in excess of two. In a dormitory, minimum floor area shall be 60 square feet (5.6 m2) per single or double bunk and aisles not less than 3 feet (914 mm) in width shall be provided between the sides of bunks and from every bunk to an exit or exit- access doorway.~~ Other habitable rooms shall have a net floor area of not less than 70 square feet (6.5 m2).

 Exception: Every kitchen in a one- and two-family dwelling shall have not less than 50 square feet (4.64 m2) of gross floor area.

 1208.4 Efficiency dwelling units. An efficiency living unit shall conform to the requirements of the code except as modified herein:

 1. The unit shall have a living room of not less than 220 square feet (20.4 m2) of floor area. An additional 100 square feet (9.3 m2) of floor area shall be provided for each occupant of such unit in excess of two.

 Interpretation I1208.4: The required square footage may not include built-in equipment which extends from floor to ceiling such as wardrobes, cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures.

 2. The unit shall be provided with a separate closet.

 3. The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance and refrigeration facilities, each having a clear working space of not less than 30 inches (762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this code shall be provided.

 4. The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.

~~1208.5 Other requirements for dwelling units. In no dwelling unit or congregate residence shall the only access from a bedroom to a bathroom be through another bedroom.~~Kitchens shall be provided with a kitchen sink, hot and cold running water, counter work space, cabinets for storage of cooking utensils and dishes, and stove and refrigerator or adequate space for the installation of the stove and refrigerator. Splash backs and counter tops shall have impervious surfaces.

 Section Subsection 1210.5 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1210

 SURROUNDING MATERIALS

 * * *

 1210.5 Toilet rooms. ~~No water closet shall be housed in any room or space used for the preparation of food.~~ Toilet rooms shall not open directly~~, without a door,~~ into a room used for the preparation of food for service to the public.

 * * *

 Section Subsection 1405.5 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1405

 INSTALLATION OF WALL COVERINGS

 ***

 1405.5 Anchored masonry veneer. Anchored masonry veneer shall comply with the provisions of Sections 1405.5, 1405.6, 1405.7 and 1405.8 and Sections 6.1 and 6.2 of ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402.

 1405.5.1 Tolerances. Anchored masonry veneers in accordance with Chapter 14 are not required to meet the tolerances in Article 3.3 G1 of ACI 530.1/ASCE 6/TMS 602.

 1405.5.2 Seismic requirements. Anchored masonry veneer located in Seismic Design Category C, D, E or F shall conform to the requirements of Section 6.2.2.10, except Section 6.2.2.10.2.2, of ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402.

 * * *

 Section Table 1604.5 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 Table 1604.5

 CLASSIFICATION OF BUILDINGS AND OTHER STRUCTURES FOR IMPORTANCE FACTORS

 SEISMIC SNOW WIND CATEGORYA NATURE OF OCCUPANCY FACTOR FACTOR FACTOR IE IS IW

 Buildings and other structures that represent a low hazard to I human life in the event of 1.00 0.8 0.87b failure including, but not limited to: Agricultural facilities Certain temporary facilities Minor storage facilities

 Buildings and other structures II except those listed in Categories 1.00 1.0 1.00 I, III, and IV

 Buildings and other structures that represent a substantial hazard to human life in the event of failure including, but not limited to: ~~Buildings and other structures where more than 300 people congregate in one area~~~~III~~ Covered structures whose 1.25 1.1 1.15 primary occupancy is public assembly with an occupant load greater than 300  Buildings and other structures with elementary school, secondary school or day care facilities with an occupant load greater than 250 Buildings and other structures with an occupant load greater than 500 for colleges or adult education Health care facilities with an occupant load of 50 or more resident patients but not having surgery or emergency treatment facilities Jails and detention facilities Any other occupancy with an occupant load greater than 5,000 Power-generating stations, water treatment for potable water, waste water treatment facilities and other public utility facilities not included  in Category IV Buildings and other structures not included in Category IV containing sufficient quantities of toxic or explosive substances to be dangerous to the public if released

 Buildings and other structures designated as essential facilities including, but not limited to: Hospitals and other health care facilities having surgery or emergency treatment facilities Fire, rescue and police stations and emergency vehicle IV garages 1.50 1.2 1.15 Designated earthquake, hurricane or other emergency shelters Designated emergency preparedness, communication, and operation centers and other facilities required for emergency response Power-generating stations and other public utility facilities required as emergency backup facilities for Category IV structures Structures containing highly toxic materials as defined by Section 307 where the quantity of the material exceeds the maximum allowable quantities of Table 307.7(2) Aviation control towers, air traffic control centers and emergency aircraft hangars Buildings and other structures having critical national defense functions Water treatment facilities required to maintain water pressure for fire suppression

 a. For the purpose of Section 1616.2, Categories I and II are considered Seismic Use Group I, Category III is considered Seismic Use Group II and Category IV is equivalent to Seismic Use Group III.

 b. In hurricane-prone regions with V >100 miles per hour, IW shall be 0.77.

 Section Table 1607.1 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 TABLE 1607.1

 MINIMUM UNIFORMLY DISTRIBUTED LIVE LOADS AND MINIMUM CONCENTRATED LIVE LOADS

 OCCUPANCY OR USE UNIFORM CONCENTRATED (psf) (lbs.)

 1. Apartments (see residential) - -

 2. Access floor systems

 Office use 50 2,000

 Computer use 100 2,000

 3. Armories and drill rooms 150 -

 4. Assembly areas and theaters

 Fixed seats (fastened to floor) 60

 Lobbies 100

 Movable seats 100

 Stages and platforms 125 -

 Follow spot, projections and control rooms 50

 Catwalks 40

 5. Balconies ~~and decks~~on small 100 - residential buildings as defined in Section  202 (exterior) On one- and two-family residences only, and not exceeding 100 ft.2

~~Private balconies and decks accessory ~~40~~~~to a dwelling unit

~~Common use balconies and decks generally ~~60~~~~not accessible to the public

~~All other balconies and decks~~~~100~~

 6. Decks on small residential buildings Same as defined in Section 202 as occupancy served

6a. Balconies and decks other than small  residential buildings as defined in Section 202 40 Private balconies and decks accessory to a 60 dwelling unit Common use balconies and decks generally not 100 accessible to the public All other balconies and decks

 7. Bowling alleys 75 -

 8. Canopiesg and Cornices 60 -

 9. Corridors, except as otherwise indicated 100 -

 10. Dance halls and ballrooms 100 -

 11. Dining rooms and restaurants 100 -

 12. Dwellings (see residential) - -

 13. Elevator machine room grating (on area - 300 of 4 in.2)

 14. Finish light floor plate construction - 200 (on area of 1 in.2)

 15. Fire escapes 100 -

 On single-family dwellings only 40

 16. Garages (passenger vehicles only) 40 Note a

 Trucks and buses See Section 1607.6

 17. Grandstands (see stadium and arena - - bleachers)

 18. Gymnasiums, main floors and balconies 100 -

 19. Handrails, guards and grab bars See Section 1607.7

 20. Hospitals

 Operating rooms, laboratories 60 1,000

 Private rooms 40 1,000

 Wards 40 1,000

 Corridors above first floor 80 1,000

 21. Hotels (see residential) - -

 22. Libraries

 Reading rooms 60 1,000

 Stack rooms 150b 1,000

 Corridors above first floor 80 1,000

 23. Manufacturing

 Light 125 2,000

 Heavy 250 3,000

 25. Office buildings

 File and computer rooms shall be designed for heavier loads based on anticipated occupancy

 Lobbies and first-floor corridors 100 2,000

 Offices 50 2,000

 Corridors above first floor 80 2,000

 26. Penal institutions

 Cell blocks 40 -

 Corridors 100

 27. Residential

 One- and two-family dwellings

 Uninhabitable attics without storage 10

 Uninhabitable attics with storage 20 -

 Habitable attics and sleeping areas 30

 All other areas except balconies and decks 40

 Hotels and multifamily dwellings

 Private rooms and corridors serving them 40

 Public rooms and corridors serving them 100

 28. Reviewing stands, grandstands and Note c - bleachers

 29. Roofs See Section 1607.11

 30. Schools

 Classrooms 40 1,000

 Corridors above first floor 80 1,000

 First-floor corridors 100 1,000

 31. Scuttles, skylight ribs and accessible - 200 ceilings

 32. Sidewalks, vehicular driveways and 250d 8,000e yards, subject to trucking

 33. Skating rinks 100 -

 34. Stadiums and arenas

 Bleachers 100c -

 Fixed seats (fastened to floor) 60 c

 35. Stairs and exits 100 Note f

 One- and two-family dwellings 40

 All other 100

 36. Storage warehouses (shall be designed for heavier loads if required for anticipated storage)

 Light 125 -

 Heavy 250

 37. Stores

 Retail

 First floor 100 1,000

 Upper floors 75 1,000

 Wholesale, all floors 125 1,000

 38. Vehicle barriers See Section 1607.7

 39. Walkways and elevated platforms (other 60 - than exitways)

 40. Yards and terraces, pedestrians 100 -

 -

 Notes to Table 1607.1

 For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm, 1 square inch = 645.16 mm2, 1 pound per square foot = 0.0479 kN/m2, 1 pound = 0.004448 kN. 1 pound per cubic foot = 16 kg/m3

 a. Floors in garages or portions of buildings used for the storage of motor vehicles shall be designed for the uniformly distributed live loads of Table 1607.1 or the following concentrated loads: (1) for garages restricted to vehicles accommodating not more than nine passengers, 3,000 pounds acting on an area of 4.5 inches by 4.5 inches; (2) for mechanical parking structures without slab or deck which are used for storing passenger vehicles only, 2,250 pounds per wheel.

 b. The loading applies to stack room floors that support nonmobile, double-faced library bookstacks, subject to the following limitations:

 1. The nominal bookstack unit height shall not exceed 90 inches;

 2. The nominal shelf depth shall not exceed 12 inches for each face; and

 3. Parallel rows of double-faced bookstacks shall be separated by aisles not less than 36 inches wide.

 c. Design in accordance with the ICC Standard on Bleachers, Folding and Telescopic Seating and Grandstands.

 d. Other uniform loads in accordance with an approved method which contains provisions for truck loadings shall also be considered where appropriate.

 e. The concentrated wheel load shall be applied on an area of 20 square inches.

 f. Minimum concentrated load on stair treads (on area of 4 square inches) is 300 pounds.

 g. This loading condition need only be considered for canopies which meet all of the following conditions.

 The upper surface is sloped less than 30 degrees from horizontal; and

 The canopy is located adjacent to a right of way or assembly area; and

 The canopy is located less than 10 feet above the ground at all points, or less than 10 feet below an adjacent roof, or less than 10 feet from operable openings above or adjacent to the level of the canopy.

 For other canopies, roof loads as specified in this Chapter shall be applied. Canopy is defined in Section 3105.1.

 Section Subsection 1609.1 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1609

 WIND LOADS

 1609.1 Applications. Buildings, structures and parts thereof shall be designed to withstand the minimum wind loads prescribed herein. Decreases in wind loads shall not be made for the effect of shielding by other structures.

 1609.1.1 Determination of wind loads. Wind loads on every building or structure shall be determined in accordance with Section 6 of ASCE 7. Wind shall be assumed to come from any horizontal direction and wind pressures shall be assumed to act normal to the surface considered.

 Exceptions:

 1. Wind loads determined by the provisions of Section 1609.6.

 2. Subject to the limitations of Section 1609.1.1.1, the provisions of SBCCI SSTD 10 Standard for Hurricane Resistant Residential Construction shall be permitted for applicable Group R-2 and R-3 buildings.

 3. Subject to the limitations of Section 1609.1.1.1, residential structures using the provisions of the AF&PA Wood Frame Construction Manual for One- and Two-Family Dwellings.

 4. Designs using NAAMM FP 1001 Guide Specification for Design of Metal Flagpoles.

 5. Designs using TIA/EIA-222 for antenna-supporting structures and antennas.

6. Designs using SEAW RSM-03 Structural Engineers Association of Washington Rapid Solution Methodology, Handbook for Wind Design.

1609.1.1.1 Applicability. The provisions of SSTD 10 are applicable only to buildings located within Exposure~~,~~ B or C as defined in Section 1609.4. The provisions of SSTD 10 and the AF&PA Wood Frame Construction Manual for One- and Two-Family Dwellings shall not apply to buildings sited on the upper half of an isolated hill, ridge or escarpment meeting the following conditions:

 1. The hill, ridge or escarpment is 60 feet (18 288 mm) or higher if located in Exposure B or 30 feet (9144 mm) or higher if located in Exposure C;

 2. The maximum average slope of the hill exceeds 10 percent; and

 3. The hill, ridge or escarpment is unobstructed upwind by other such topographic features for a distance from the high point of 50 times the height of the hill or 1 mile (1.61 km), whichever is greater.

 1609.1.2 Minimum wind loads. The wind loads used in the design of the main wind-force-resisting system shall not be less than 10 psf (0.479 kN/m2) multiplied by the area of the building or structure projected on a vertical plane normal to the wind direction. In the calculation of design wind loads for components and cladding for buildings, the algebraic sum of the pressures acting on opposite faces shall be taken into account. The design pressure for components and cladding of buildings shall not be less than 10 psf (0.479 kN/m2) acting in either direction normal to the surface. The design force for open buildings and other structures shall not be less than 10 psf (0.479 kN/m2) multiplied by the area Af.

 1609.1.3 Anchorage against overturning, uplift and sliding. Structural members and systems and components and cladding in a building or structure shall be anchored to resist wind-induced overturning, uplift and sliding and to provide continuous load paths for these forces to the foundation. Where a portion of the resistance to these forces is provided by dead load, the dead load, including the weight of soils and foundations, shall be taken as the minimum dead load likely to be in place during a design wind event. Where the alternate basic load combinations of Section 1605.3.2 are used, only two-thirds of the minimum dead load likely to be in place during a design wind event shall be used.

 1609.1.4 Protection of openings. In wind-borne debris regions, glazing that receives positive external pressure in the lower 60 feet (18 288 mm) in buildings shall be assumed to be openings unless such glazing is impact resistant or protected with an impact-resistant covering meeting the requirements of an approved impact-resisting standard or ASTM E 1996 and of ASTM E 1886 referenced therein as follows:

 1. Glazed openings located within 30 feet (9144 mm) of grade shall meet the requirements of the Large Missile Test of ASTM E 1996.

 2. Glazed openings located more than 30 feet (9144 mm) above grade shall meet the provisions of the Small Missile Test of ASTM E 1996.

 Exceptions:

 1. Wood structural panels with a minimum thickness of 7/16 inch (11.1 mm) and maximum panel span of 8 feet (2438 mm) shall be permitted for opening protection in one- and two-story buildings. Panels shall be precut to cover the glazed openings with attachment hardware provided. Attachments shall be designed to resist the components and cladding loads determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 1609.6.1.2. Attachment in accordance with Table 1609.1.4 is permitted for buildings with a mean roof height of 33 feet (10 058 mm) or less where wind speeds do not exceed 130 mph (57.2 m/s).

 2. Buildings in Category I as defined in Table 1604.5, including production greenhouses as defined in Section 1608.3.3.

 TABLE 1609.1.4

 WIND-BORNE DEBRIS PROTECTION FASTENING

 SCHEDULE FOR WOOD STRUCTURAL PANELSa,b,c

 FASTENER TYPE FASTENER SPACING (inches)

 Panel span = 2 feet 2-1/2 No. 6 16 16 12 9 Wood screws

 2 1/2 No. 8 16 16 16 12 Wood screws

 For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm, 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 pound = 4.4 N, 1 mile per hour = 0.44 m/s.

 a. This table is based on a maximum wind speed (3-second gust) of 130 mph and mean roof height of 33 feet or less.

 b. Fasteners shall be installed at opposing ends of the wood structural panel.

 c. Where screws are attached to masonry or masonry/stucco, they shall be attached utilizing vibration-resistant anchors having a minimum withdrawal capacity of 490 pounds.

 1609.1.4.1 Building with openings. Where glazing is assumed to be an opening in accordance with Section 1609.1.4, the building shall be evaluated to determine if the openings are of sufficient area to constitute an open or partially enclosed building as defined in Section 1609.2. Open and partially enclosed buildings shall be designed in accordance with the applicable provisions of ASCE 7.

 1609.1.5 Wind and seismic detailing. Lateral-force-resisting systems shall meet seismic detailing requirements and limitations prescribed in this code, even when wind code prescribed load effects are greater than seismic load effects.

 ***

 Section Subsection 1615.1 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1615

 EARTHQUAKE LOADS-SITE GROUND MOTION

 1615.1 General procedure for determining maximum considered earthquake and design spectral response accelerations. Ground motion accelerations, represented by response spectra and coefficients derived from these spectra, shall be determined in accordance with the general procedure of Section 1615.1, or the site-specific procedure of Section 1615.2. The site-specific procedure of Section 1615.2 shall be used for structures on sites classified as Site Class F, in accordance with Section 1615.1.1.

 The mapped maximum considered earthquake spectral response acceleration at short periods (SS) and at 1-second period (S1) shall be determined from Figures 1615(1) through (10) or 2002 USGS National Seismic Hazard maps, U.S. Geological Survey Open File Report 02-420. Where a site is between contours, straight-line interpolation or the value of the higher contour shall be used.

 The site class shall be determined in accordance with Section 1615.1.1. The maximum considered earthquake spectral response accelerations at short period and 1-second period adjusted for site class effects, SMS and SM1, shall be determined in accordance with Section 1615.1.2. The design spectral response accelerations at short period, SDS, and at 1-second period, SD1, shall be determined in accordance with Section 1615.1.3. The general response spectrum shall be determined in accordance with Section 1615.1.4.

 ***

 Section Subsection 1707.3 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1707

 SPECIAL INSPECTIONS FOR SEISMIC RESISTANCE

 ***

 1707.3 Structural wood. Continuous special inspection during field gluing operations of elements of the seismic-force-resisting system. Periodic special inspections for nailing, bolting, anchoring and other fastening of components within the seismic-force-resisting system, including drag struts, braces and hold-downs.

 Exceptions:

 1. Fastening of wood sheathing used for wood shear walls, shear panels and diaphragms where the fastener spacing is ~~more than~~ 4 inches (102 mm) or more on center (o.c.).

 2. Special inspection is not required for Group R-3 ~~detached~~ structures.

3. Special inspection is not required in Group R-1 and R-2 structures three stories and less in height. 4. Special inspection is not required for epoxy-grouted anchor bolts in Group R-1 and R-2 buildings

where fastener spacing is ~~more than~~ 4 inches (102 mm) or more on center (o.c.) and hold down capacities are less than 5000 pounds.

 ***

 Section Subsection 2107.2 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 2107

 WORKING STRESS DESIGN

 ***

 2107.2 Modifications to ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402.

 2107.2.1 ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402, Chapter 2. Special inspection during construction shall be provided as set forth in Section 1704.5.

 2107.2.2 ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402, Section 2.1.6. Masonry columns used only to support light-frame roofs of carports, porches, sheds or similar structures with a maximum area of 450 square feet (41.8 m2) assigned to Seismic Design Category A, B or C are permitted to be designed and constructed as follows:

 1. Concrete masonry materials shall be in accordance with Section 2103.1. Clay or shale masonry units shall be in accordance with Section 2103.2.

 2. The nominal cross-sectional dimension of columns shall not be less than 8 inches (203 mm).

 3. Columns shall be reinforced with not less than one No. 4 bar centered in each cell of the column.

 4. Columns shall be grouted solid.

 5. Columns shall not exceed 12 feet (3658 mm) in height.

 6. Roofs shall be anchored to the columns. Such anchorage shall be capable of resisting the design loads specified in Chapter 16.

 7. Where such columns are required to resist uplift loads, the columns shall be anchored to their footings with two No. 4 bars extending a minimum of 24 inches (610 mm) into the columns and bent horizontally a minimum of 15 inches (381 mm) in opposite directions into the footings. One of these bars is permitted to be the reinforcing bar specified in Item 3 above. The total weight of a column and its footing shall not be less than 1.5 times the design uplift load.

~~2107.2.3 ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402, Section 2.1.10.6.1.1, lap splices. The minimum length of lap splices for reinforcing bars in tension or compression, lld, shall be calculated by Equation 21-2, but shall not be less than 15 inches (380 mm).~~(Equation 21-2)

 For SI:

 where:

 db = Diameter of reinforcement, inches (mm).

 fy = Specified yield stress of the reinforcement or the anchor bolt, psi (mPa).

 f 'm = Specified compressive strength of masonry at age of 28 days, psi (mPa).

 lld = Minimum lap splice length, inches (mm).

 K = The lesser of the masonry cover, clear spacing between adjacent reinforcement or five times db, inches (mm).

 ? = 1.0 for No. 3 through No. 5 reinforcing bars. 1.4 for No. 6 and No. 7 reinforcing bars. 1.5 for No. 8 through No. 9 reinforcing bars.

2107.2.3 ACE 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402, Section 2.1.10.6.1.1, lap splices. In regions of moment where the design tensile stresses in the reinforcement are greater than 80 percent of the allowable steel stress Fs, the lap length determined by equation (2.9) shall be increased by 50 percent.

 2107.2.4 ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402, maximum bar size. The bar diameter shall not exceed one-eighth of the nominal wall thickness and shall not exceed one-quarter of the least dimension of the cell, course or collar joint in which it is placed.

 2107.2.5 ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402, splices for large bars. Reinforcing bars larger than No. 9 in size shall be spliced using mechanical connectors in accordance with ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402, Section 2.1.10.6.3.

 2107.2.6 ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402, Maximum reinforcement percentage. Special reinforced masonry shear walls having a shear span ratio, M/Vd, equal to or greater than 1.0 and having an axial load, P greater than 0.05 f 'mAn which are subjected to in-plane forces, shall have a maximum reinforcement ratio, ?max, not greater than that computed as follows:

 (Equation 21-3)

 Section Subsections 2108.2, 2108.3 and 2108.4 of the Seattle Building Code are amended as follows:

 SECTION 2108

 STRENGTH DESIGN OF MASONRY

 ***

 2108.2 ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402, Section 3.1.6. Modify Section 3.1.6 as follows:  3.1.6 Headed and bent-bar anchor bolts. All embedded bolts shall be grouted in place, except that 1/4 inch (6.4 mm) diameter bolts are permitted to be placed in bed joints that are at least 1/2 inch (12.7 mm) in thickness.

2108.3 ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402, Section 3.2.2(g). Modify Section 3.2.2(g) as follows:

 3.2.2(g). The relationship between masonry compressive stress and masonry strain shall be assumed to be defined by the following:

 Masonry stress of 0.80 ?'m shall be assumed uniformly distributed over an equivalent compression zone bounded by edges of the cross section and a straight line located parallel to the neutral axis at a distance, a = 0.80 c, from the fiber of maximum compressive strain. The distance, c, from the fiber of maximum strain to the neutral axis shall be measured perpendicular to that axis. For out-of-plane bending, the width of the equivalent stress block shall not be taken greater than six times the nominal thickness of the masonry wall or the spacing between reinforcement, whichever is less. For in-plane bending of flanged walls, the effective flange width shall not exceed six times the thickness of the flange.

~~2108.3~~2108.4 ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402, Section 3.2.3.4. Modify Section 3.2.3.4 (b) and (c) as follows:

 3.2.3.4 (b). A welded splice shall have the bars butted and welded to develop at least 125 percent of the yield strength, ?y, of the bar in tension or compression, as required. Welded splices shall be of ASTM A 706 steel reinforcement. Welded splices shall not be permitted in plastic hinge zones of intermediate or special reinforced walls or special moment frames of masonry.

 3.2.3.4 (c). Mechanical splices shall be classified as Type 1 or 2 according to Section 21.2.6.1 of ACI 318. Type 1 mechanical splices shall not be used within a plastic hinge zone or within a beam-column joint of intermediate or special reinforced masonry shear walls or special moment frames. Type 2 mechanical splices are permitted in any location within a member.

~~2108.4~~2108.5 ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS 402, Section 3.2.3.5.1. Add the following text to Section 3.2.3.5.1:

 For special prestressed masonry shear walls, strain in all prestressing steel shall be computed to be compatible with a strain in the extreme tension reinforcement equal to five times the strain associated with the reinforcement yield stress, fy. The calculation of the maximum reinforcement shall consider forces in the prestressing steel that correspond to these calculated strains.

 Section Subsection 2406.1 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 2406

 SAFETY GLAZING

 2406.1 Human impact loads. Individual glazed areas, including glass mirrors, in hazardous locations as defined in Section 2406.3 shall comply with Sections 2406.1.1 through 2406.1.5.

 2406.1.1 CPSC 16 CFR 1201. Except as provided in Sections 2406.1.2 through 2406.1.5, all glazing shall pass the test requirements of CPSC 16 CFR 1201, listed in Chapter 35. Glazing shall comply with the CPSC 16 CFR, Part 1201 criteria, for Category I or II as indicated in Table 2406.1.

~~2406.1.2 Wired glass. In other than Group E, wired glass installed in fire doors, fire windows and view panels in fire-resistant walls shall be permitted to comply with ANSI Z97.1.~~

 2406.1.3 Plastic glazing. Plastic glazing shall meet the weathering requirements of ANSI Z97.1.

 2406.1.4 Glass block. Glass-block walls shall comply with Section 2101.2.5.

 2406.1.5 Louvered windows and jalousies. Louvered windows and jalousies shall comply with Section 2403.5.

 ***

 Section Section 2509 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 2509

 GYPSUM BOARD IN SHOWERS AND WATER CLOSETS

 2509.1 Wet areas. Showers and public toilet walls shall conform to Sections 1210.2 and 1210.3.

 2509.2 Base for tile. When gypsum board is used as a base for tile or wall panels for tubs, shower or water closet compartment walls, water-resistant gypsum backing board shall be used as a substrate. Regular gypsum wallboard is permitted under tile or wall panels in other wall and ceiling areas when installed in accordance with GA-216 or ASTM C840.

 2509.3 Limitations. Water-resistant gypsum backing board shall not be used in the following locations:

 1. Over a vapor retarder in shower or bathtub compartments.

 2. Where there will be direct exposure to water or in areas subject to continuous high humidity.

 3. On ceilings where frame spacing exceeds ~~16~~12 inches ~~406~~305 mm) o.c. for 1/2-inch-thick (12.7 mm) water- resistant gypsum backing board and more than ~~24~~16 inches (406 mm) o.c. for 5/8-inch-thick (15.9 mm) water-resistant gypsum backing board.

 Section Subsection 2902.3 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 2902

 GENERAL

 ***

 2902.3 Separate facilities.

 2902.3.1 Requirements. Separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex.

 Exception~~s~~:

~~1.~~ In occupancies serving ~~10~~15 or fewer persons, one toilet facility designed for use by no more than one person at a time shall be permitted for use by both sexes.

~~2. In Group B and M Occupancies with a total floor area of 1500 square feet (139 m2) or less, one toilet facility designed for use by no more than one person at a time shall be permitted for use by both sexes.~~

 2902.3.2 Food service establishments. When customers and employees share the same facilities, customers accessing the facilities are excluded from food preparation and storage areas.

 ***

 Section Table 2902.1 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 TABLE 2902.1 -- MINIMUM PLUMBING FIXTURES1,2,4,6

 TYPE OF BUILDING WATER CLOSETS LAVATORIES5 BATHTUB OR OR OCCUPANCY (fixtures per person) (fixtures per SHOWER person) (fixtures per person)

 MALE3 FEMALE MALE FEMALE

 For the occupancies listed below, use 30 square feet (2.79 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.

 Group A

 Conference 1:1-25 1:1-25 One per 2 water rooms, dining closets rooms, drinking establishments, exhibit rooms, gymnasiums, lounges, stages and similar uses including restaurants classified as Group B Occupancies

 2:26-75 2:26-75

 3:76-125 3:76-125

 4:126-200 4:126-200

 5:201-300 5:201-300

 6:301-400 6:301-400

 Over 400, add one fixture for each additional 200 males or 150 females

 For the assembly occupancies listed below, use the number of fixed seating or, where no fixed seating is provided, use 15 square feet (1.39 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.

 Assembly places 1:1-100 One per 1:1-200 1:1-200 -- 25 Theaters, auditoriums, convention halls, dance floors, lodge rooms, casinos, and such places which have limited time for fixture use (intermissions)

 2:101-200 Up to 400 2:201-400 2:201-400

 3:201-400 3:401-750 3:401-750

 Over 400, add one Over 750, add one fixture for each fixture for each additional 250 males or additional 500 50 females persons

 Assembly places 1:1-100 One per 1:1-200 1:1-200 -- 50 Stadiums, arena and other sporting facilities where fixture use is not limited to intermissions

 2:101-200 Up to 400 2:201-400 2:201-400

 3:201-400 3:401-750 3:401-750

 Over 400, add one Over 750, add one fixture for each fixture for each additional 300 males or additional 500 100 females persons

 For the assembly occupancies listed below, use the number of fixed seating or, where no fixed seating is provided, use 30 square feet (2.79 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.

 Worship places

 Principal One per 150 One per One per 2 water assembly area 75 closets

 Educational & One per 125 One per One per 2 water activity unit 75 closets

 For the occupancies listed below, use 200 square feet (18.58 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.

 Group B 1:1-15 1:1-15 One per 2 water and other closets clerical or administrative employee accessory use

 2:16-35 2:16-35

 3:36-55 3:36-55

 Over 55, add one for each additional 50 persons

 For the occupancies listed below, use 100 square feet ( 9.3 m2) per student for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.

 Group E 1:1-15 1:1-15 One per 2 water closets

 Schools - for 2:16-35 2:16-35 staff use

 All schools 3:36-55 3:36-55

 (One staff per Over 55, add one fixture 20 students) for each additional 40 persons

 Schools - for 1:1-20 1:1-20 1:1-20 1:1-20 student use

 Day care 2:21-50 2:21-50 2:21-50 2:21-50

 Over 50, add one fixture Over 50, add one for each additional 50 fixture for each persons additional 50 persons

 Elementary One per 30 One per One per 2 water 25 closets

 Secondary One per 40 One per One per 2 water 30 closets

 For the occupancies listed below, use 50 square feet (4.65 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.

 Education facilities other than Group E

 Others One per 40 One per One per 2 water (colleges, 25 closets universities, adult centers, etc.)

 For the occupancies listed below, use 2,000 square feet (185.8 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.

 Group F and 1:1-10 1:1-10 One per 2 water Group H closets

 Workshop, 2:11-25 2:11-25 One shower for foundries and each 15 persons similar exposed to establishments, excessive heat and hazardous or to skin occupancies contamination with irritating materials

 3:26-50 3:26-50

 4:51-75 4:51-75

 5:76-100 5:76-100

 Over 100, add one fixture for each additional 30 persons

 For the occupancies listed below, use the designated application and 200 square feet (18.58 m2) per occupant of the general use area for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.

 Group I7

 Hospital waiting One per room (usable by One per room rooms either sex)

 Hospital general 1:1-15 1:1-15 One per 2 water use areas closets

 2:16-35 3:16-35

 3:36-55 3:36-55

 Over 55, add one fixture for each additional 40 persons

 Hospital patient rooms:

 Single Bed One adjacent to and One per toilet One per toilet directly accessible from room room

 Isolation One adjacent to and One per toilet One per toilet directly accessible from room room

 Multibed One per 4 patients One per 4 patients One per 8 patients

 Long-term One per 4 patients One per 4 patients One per 15 patients

 Jails and reformatories

 Cell One per cell One per cell

 Exercise room One per exercise room One per exercise room

 Other One per 25 One per One per 2 water One per 8 institutions (on 25 closets each occupied floor)

 Group LC For Group LC Occupancies, the minimum number of plumbing fixtures is specified in Section 419.15.

 For the occupancies listed below, use 200 square feet (18.58 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.

 Group M

 Retail or 1:1-50 1:1-50 One per 2 water wholesale stores closets

 2:51-100 2:51-100

 3:101-400 3:101-200

 4:201-300

 5:301-400

 Over 400, add one fixture for each additional 300 males or 150 females

 For Group R Occupancies containing dwelling units or guest rooms, use the table below. For dormitories, use 200 square feet (18.58 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.

 Group R

 Dwelling units One per dwelling unit One per dwelling One per dwelling unit unit

 Hotel, motel, One per guest room One per guest room One per guest and boarding room house guest rooms

 Dormitories One per 10 One per 8 One per One per One per 8 12 12

 Over 10, add one fixture Over 12, add one For females, add for each additional 25 fixture for each one additional males and over 8, add additional 20 unit per each one for each additional males and one for additional 30. 20 females each additional 15 Over 150 females persons, add one additional unit per each additional 20 persons

 For the occupancies listed below, use 5,000 square feet (464.5 m2) per occupant for the minimum number of plumbing fixtures.

 Group S 1:1-10 1:1-10 One per 40 One shower for occupants of each each 15 persons sex exposed to excessive heat or to skin contamination with poisonous, infectious or irritating materials

 Warehouses 2:11-25 2:11-25

 3:26-50 3:26-50

 4:51-75 4:51-75

 5:76-100 5:76-100

 Over 100, add one for each 30 persons

 1The figures shown are based on one fixture being the minimum required for the number of persons indicated or any fraction thereof.

 2For occupancies not shown, see Section 2902.1.1.

 3Where urinals are provided, one water closet less than the number specified may be provided for each urinal installed, except the number of water closets in such cases shall not be reduced to less than one quarter (25%) of the minimum specified. For men's facilities serving 26 or more persons, not less than one urinal shall be provided.

 4For drinking fountains, see Section 2903.4.

 5Twenty-four inches (610 mm) of wash sink or 18 inches (457 mm) of a circular basin, when provided with water outlets for such space, shall be considered equivalent to one lavatory.

 6For when a facility may be usable by either sex, see Section 2902.3.1.

 7See WAC 246-320 for definitions, other fixtures and equipment for hospitals.

8When a space is accessory to or included as a part of a different occupancy group per Chapter 3, the area per occupant for the minimum plumbing fixture number is to be determined by its own specific use or purpose, not by that of the building's occupancy group.

Section Section 3003 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 3003 - CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE

 The following codes are hereby adopted by reference and together with the provisions of this chapter shall constitute the Elevator Code of the City of Seattle. A copy of each is filed with the City Clerk.

 1. ASME Codes:

 1.1. Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, ASME A17.1-2000, A17.1a-2002, A17.1b-2003 and Appendices A through M, and Appendix O.

 EXCEPTION: ASME A17.1 Section 5.10, Elevators Used for Construction, is not adopted.

 1.2 Safety Standard For Platform Lifts and Stairway Chairlifts, ASME A18.1-1999, A18.1a-2001 and A18.1b-2001.

 2. The building official may adopt by administrative rule, in accordance with Section 104.17 of this code, addenda to the Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, ASME A17.1-2000 which further the intent and purpose of this code, which encourage the use of state of the art technology, materials or methods of construction, and which provide standards which are equal or better than those contained in this code.

 3. Safety Regulations for All Elevators, Dumbwaiters, Escalators and Other Conveyances, Washington Administrative Code Chapter 296-96, effective ~~January 22, 2001~~June 30, 2004.

 EXCEPTIONS: The following sections of WAC Chapter 296-96 are not adopted:

 1. Part B, Licenses and Fees for all Elevators, Dumbwaiters, Escalators, and Other Devices, WAC 296-96-00900 through -01075.

 2. Part C3, Construction, Operation, Maintenance and Inspection of Private Residence Conveyances for Transporting Property for Residential Use, WAC 296-96-08010 through -08250.

 3. Part C4, Temporary Hoists, WAC 296-96-09001 through -10002.

 4. Part C5, Additional Types of Conveyances, WAC 296-96-11001 through -20005.~~~~Section Section 3401 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 3401

~~GENERAL~~EXISTING OCCUPANCIES

3401.1 General. Buildings in existence at the time of the passage of this building code which were legally constructed and occupied in accordance with the provisions of a prior code may have their existing occupancy continued, provided such occupancy is not hazardous.

 Any change in the occupancy or character of occupancy of any existing building, structure or portion thereof shall comply with the provisions of Section 109 and Section 3405.

 In order to legalize an existing occupancy for the record, it is required that the building comply with the fire and life safety requirements of this building code or the effective code at the time the building was constructed. If the existing occupancy or character of occupancy is other than that for which the building was constructed, the building shall comply with this building code or the effective code at the time the existing occupancy was legally established.

3401.2 Occupant load increases in Group A occupancies. When the occupant load in an existing Group A-2 nightclub is increased, an automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in the fire area containing the nightclub.  Exception: A sprinkler system is not required if all the following conditions are met:

 1. The increase is either 50 occupants or less, or no more than 10 percent of the occupant load of the existing nightclub, whichever is greater; and

 2. The existing means of egress system has adequate capacity to accommodate the additional occupant load; and

 3. The total occupant load in the nightclub does not exceed one occupant per 5 square feet; and

 4. The increase is not part of a substantial alteration.

Section Subsection 3403.2 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 3403

 ADDITIONS, ALTERATIONS OR REPAIRS

 ***

 3403.2 When Allowed. Additions, alterations or repairs may be made to any building or structure without requiring the existing building or structure to comply with all the requirements of this code, provided the addition, alteration or repair conforms to that required for a new building or structure.

 Exceptions:

 1. Alterations to existing structural elements or additions of new structural elements that are not required by Sections 1613 through 1623 and are initiated for the purpose of increasing the strength or stiffness of the seismic-force-resisting system of an existing structure need not be designed for forces conforming to Sections 1613 through 1623 provided that an engineering analysis is submitted indicating the following:

 1.1. The design strength of existing structural elements required to resist seismic forces is not reduced.

 1.2. The seismic force to required existing structural elements is not increased beyond their design strength.

 1.3. New structural elements are detailed and connected to the existing structural elements as required by Chapter 16.

 1.4. New or relocated nonstructural elements are detailed and connected to existing or new structural elements as required by Chapter 16.

 1.5. The alterations do not create a structural irregularity as defined in Section 1616.5 or make an existing structural irregularity more severe.

 1.6. The alterations do not result in the creation of an unsafe condition.

 2. Where changes to offices, outpatient clinics or medical offices occur on a multi-tenant floor which contains non-conforming corridors, new tenant walls associated with the tenant change need not meet the standards for one-hour corridor construction, unless the project is considered a substantial alteration as defined in this chapter.

 3. Automatic sprinkler systems are required when new dwelling units are added to buildings according to Items 3.1 through ~~3.3~~ 3.5 below.

 3.1 One unit is permitted to be added without an automatic sprinkler system unless sprinklers are otherwise required by this section. If more than one unit is added, the new units shall be equipped with a sprinkler system.

 3.2 In buildings that do not comply with the provisions of this code for number of stories, allowable area, height or type of construction before the unit is added, an automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in the new unit. The addition of the new unit shall not be allowed if it increases the nonconformity.

 3.3 In buildings undergoing substantial alteration, an automatic sprinkler system is required where required by this code for new construction.

3.4 One unit is permitted to be added to an existing duplex without an automatic sprinkler system where both of the following conditions are met:  3.4.1 The project is considered a substantial alteration only because of the change in occupancy; and

 3.4.2 The building complies with the requirements for building height and number of stories for a Group R-2 occupancy.

 3.5 Where one unit is added to an existing duplex, sprinklers are required in the new unit and not in the existing units where all of the following conditions are met:

 3.5.1 The existing duplex does not comply with the requirements for building height and story count for a Group R-2 occupancy;

 3.5.2 The project is considered a substantial alteration only because of the change in occupancy;

 3.5.3 The new unit is constructed as an addition to the duplex;

 3.5.4 The new unit is separated from the existing duplex by a fire wall; and

 3.5.5 The addition by itself complies with the requirements for a Group R-2 occupancy.

 4. Ceilings in basements may project to within 6 feet 8 inches (2032 mm) of the finished floor; and beams, girders, ducts or other obstructions may project to within 6 feet 4 inches (1931 mm) of the finished floor.

* * *

 Section Section 3405 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 SECTION 3405

 CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY

 No change shall be made in the character of occupancies or use of any building which would place the building in a different division or subdivision of the same group of occupancy or in a different group of occupancies, unless such building is made to comply with the requirements of this chapter and the requirements of Chapters 3 and 4 for such division or group of occupancy. Change of tenants will be permitted so long as the character of the occupancy is not changed.

 EXCEPTION: The character of the occupancy of existing buildings may be changed subject to the approval of the building official, as set forth in Section 3403. The building may be occupied for purposes in other groups without conforming to all the requirements of this code for those groups, provided the new or proposed use is not more hazardous, based on life and fire risk, than the existing use.

 No change in the character of occupancy of a building shall be made without a certificate of occupancy, as required in Section 109 of this code. The building official may issue a certificate of occupancy pursuant to the intent of the above exception without certifying that the building complies with all provisions of this code.

 In addition to the requirements of Sections 420, 1203 and 2903, upon conversion of an existing building to residential occupancy, the elements of the dwelling unit envelope which are altered shall comply with the sound transmission control requirements of Section 1207.

 See Section 3403.12 for additional requirements for substantial alterations.

 Section Subsection 3406.8 of the Seattle Building Code is amended as follows:

 ***

 3406.8 Historic buildings. These provisions shall apply to buildings and facilities designated as historic structures that undergo alterations or a change of occupancy, unless technically infeasible. Where compliance with the requirements for accessible routes, ramps, entrances or toilet facilities would threaten or destroy the historic significance of the building or facility, as determined by the authority having jurisdiction, the alternative requirements of Sections 3406.8.1 through ~~3406.8.5~~3406.8.6 for that element shall be permitted.

 3406.8.1 Site arrival points. At least one accessible route from a site arrival point to an accessible entrance shall be provided.

 3406.8.2 Multilevel buildings and facilities. An accessible route from an accessible entrance to public spaces on the level of the accessible entrance shall be provided.

 3406.8.3 Entrances. At least one main entrance shall be accessible.

 Exceptions:

 1. If a main entrance cannot be made accessible, an accessible nonpublic entrance that is unlocked while the building is occupied shall be provided; or

 2. If a main entrance cannot be made accessible, a locked accessible entrance with a notification system or remote monitoring shall be provided.

 Signs complying with Section 1110 shall be provided at the primary entrance and the accessible entrance.

 3406.8.4 Toilet and bathing facilities. Where toilet rooms are provided, at least one accessible toilet room complying with Section 1109.2.1 shall be provided.

 3406.8.5 Ramps. The slope of a ramp run of 24 inches (610 mm) maximum shall not be steeper than one unit vertical in eight units horizontal (12-percent slope).

3406.8.6 Displays. Displays and written information shall be located where they can be seen by a seated person. Exhibits and signs displayed horizontally shall be 44 inches (1120 mm) maximum above the floor.

Section Chapter 35 of the Seattle Building Code is amended by adding referenced standards as follows:

 CHAPTER 35

 REFERENCED STANDARDS

 ***

 Standard reference number/Title/Referenced in code section number

 ***

 ICC ANSI A117.1-~~98~~2003/Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities/406.2.2, 907.9.1.3,1007.6.5, 1010.1, 1010.6.5, 1010.9, 1011.3, 1101.2, 1102.1, 1103.2.13, 1106.6, 1107.2, 1109.2.2, 1109.3,1109.4, 1109.8, 1109.15, 3001.3, 3409.5, 3409.7.2, 3409.7.3

SEAW RSM-03/Structural Engineers Association of Washington Rapid Solution Methodology, Handbook for Wind Design/1609.1

 Section The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person, owner, or circumstance shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance, or the validity of its application to other persons, owners, or circumstances.

 Section 41. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Maureen Traxler/mt

 2005 IBC ord

 February 2, 2006

 version #1

 -

 1

```
