

********

**Council Bill Number: 115560**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122102**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the transfer of City real property; authorizing the transfer of 918 26th Avenue South to Habitat for Humanity of Seattle/South King County or its designee; authorizing the Director of the Office of Housing to execute, deliver, and administer the contract for transfer of land, deed and related documents; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 8, 2006
   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: Conlin, Licata, Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 18, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 17, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 24, 2006
   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services and Health
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, CENTRAL-AREA, ATLANTIC

**Fiscal Note:**115560

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the transfer of City real property; authorizing the transfer of 918 26th Avenue South to Habitat for Humanity of Seattle/South King County or its designee; authorizing the Director of the Office of Housing to execute, deliver, and administer the contract for transfer of land, deed and related documents; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 116516, amended by Ordinance 119313, the City Council authorized the City to enter into a Land Transfer Agreement to purchase certain improved and unimproved real property in the I-90 corridor from the State of Washington; and

 WHEREAS, the Land Transfer Agreement was executed on May 5, 1993 and subsequently amended, and further authorized issuance to the State of promissory notes of the City for the deferred portion of the purchase price of each improved parcel; and

 WHEREAS, by Resolution 27901, City Council approved the I-90 Area Development Policies as the basic City policy governing the development of surplus publicly-owned land in the I-90 corridor, and such policies were amended on December 11, 1995, by Resolution 29258 and on June 2, 1997 by Resolution 29585; and

 WHEREAS, these policies promote use of I-90 properties for homeownership; and

 WHEREAS, Habitat for Humanity of Seattle/South King County ("Habitat") desires to acquire 918 26th Avenue South to facilitate relocation and renovation of one house and construction of another house for sale to low-income homebuyers; and

 WHEREAS, the Director of the Office of Housing has recommended that the property located at 918 26th Avenue South be transferred to Habitat;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of the Office of Housing ("Director") is authorized to enter into and perform an agreement ("Agreement") with Habitat for Humanity of Seattle/South King County ("Habitat") or with a designee of Habitat approved by the Director (Habitat and any approved designee, and any assignee of the Agreement approved by the Director, are referred to as "Transferee"), for the transfer of the property legally described as:

 Parcel Number 152330-0170

 The West 100 feet of Lot 5 in Block 3 of Charles Addition to the City of Seattle, as per plat recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page[P1]131, records of King County, Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington

 (the "Property") subject to the terms and conditions authorized in this ordinance.

 The Agreement shall be in the form attached to this ordinance as Attachment A, with any revisions and additions not inconsistent with the express terms of this ordinance or with applicable law that Thethe Director may determine are reasonably necessary to carry out the intent of this ordinance. Upon transfer of the Property, Transferee shall sign and deliver to the City a promissory note ("Note") in the amount of $85,000 secured by a deed of trust on the Property, in accordance with the Agreement. The terms of the Note shall be substantially as set forth in Attachment A except as modified by written agreement based on a determination by Thethe Director that, after review of the Transferee's development plans and the reasonable costs of developing the housing and maintaining long- term affordability, the terms in Attachment A are or may be more favorable than reasonably required in order for Transferee to provide and maintain long-term affordable housing at the income levels established according to commitments to the City.

 In order to carry out the Agreement for and on behalf of the City, the Director is authorized to execute a deed for the Property, substantially in the form of Exhibit A to Attachment A to this ordinance, and upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent under the Agreement, except for any that may be waived in writing by the Director, the Director is authorized to cause the deed to be recorded and delivered to the Transferee. The Director is authorized to execute, deliver, accept, record, modify, enforce, and administer (A) a Right of Entry Agreement for Construction in the form attached to this ordinance as Attachment B, with any revisions and additions not inconsistent with the express terms of this ordinance or with applicable law that the Director may determine are reasonably necessary to carry out the intent of this ordinance, and (B) such other documents, which may include amendments and extensions to the Agreement, and take such other actions, as the Director shall deem necessary or advisable to implement the purpose of this ordinance.

 Section 2. The Agreement shall require Transferee to use diligent efforts to pursue design work, financing applications, environmental reports, permit applications, and all other steps necessary to construct and permanently finance improvements on the Property as described in Section 3 of this ordinance. All such efforts of Transferee shall be at its own expense and risk. The Agreement may provide interim deadlines as deemed appropriate by Thethe Director, which may be extended in the discretion of Thethe Director. The Agreement shall terminate if the conditions to transfer of the Property by the City are not satisfied within two (2) years of the effective date of this ordinance, except that extensions may be granted by Thethe Director if, in the judgment of Thethe Director, an extension furthers the City's objectives.

 Section 3. The improvements to be developed on the Property are to include the relocation and renovation of one house and construction of an additional house for initial sale to households with income at or below 80% of median income as defined in the Agreement, with sale prices affordable to such households as determined in the Agreement. Future sale prices shall be restricted to maintain affordability to Low-income Home Buyers, as defined in the Agreement.

 Section 4. The disposition procedures in the I-90 Area Development Policies, as adopted in Resolution 27901 and amended in Resolutions 29258 and 29585, and provisions of such policies with respect to intended or preferred uses or development, shall be waived with respect to the transfer of the Property to Transferee.

 Section 5. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment A: Property Transfer Agreement Exhibits to Attachment A: Exhibit A Form of Quitclaim Deed Exhibit B Map of Property Location Exhibit C Form of Promissory Note Exhibit D Deed of Trust (not included) Exhibit E Preliminary Title Report with Permitted Exceptions (not included) Exhibit F Schematic Design, Summary Description, Construction Plan , & Schedule (not included) Attachment B: Right of Entry Agreement for Construction

 April 3, 2006 version 65 t

 Attachment A: Property Transfer Agreement

 PROPERTY TRANSFER AGREEMENT Parcel 33 - 918 26th Ave. S.

 This Property Transfer Agreement (the "Agreement" or "Contract") is made as of _______________, 2006, by and between The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington (the "City" or "Seller"), and Habitat for Humanity of Seattle/South King County, a Washington nonprofit corporation ("Habitat," and together with any transferee of Habitat's rights as permitted pursuant to this Agreement, "Purchaser").

 WHEREAS, the City obtained ownership of certain land known as "Parcel 33 - 918 26th Ave. S." ("Land") from the State of Washington; and

 WHEREAS, Habitat is a not-for-profit corporation with a mission that includes developing affordable housing for the purpose of selling such housing to low-income homebuyers; and

 WHEREAS, Habitat desires to acquire possession of the Land to in order to move an existing home onto the Land and construct a second house, each for sale to low-income homebuyers; and

 WHEREAS, Purchaser plans to assign its interest in this Agreement at the time of completion of construction to Homestead Community Land Trust, a Washington nonprofit corporation ("Homestead"), which intends to then proceed to closing with Seller and take title to the Land in order to facilitate long-term affordability of the houses to both initial and subsequent buyers; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle City Council has authorized the Director of the Office of Housing to dispose of the Property as provided herein, pursuant to Ordinance __________.

 Now, therefore, the parties hereto, for and in consideration of the promises and mutual obligations herein undertaken, do hereby agree as follows:

 PART I

 Section 1. Agreement to Convey Property

 Subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the City agrees to transfer and convey to Purchaser, and Purchaser agrees to buy from the City, that certain land located at 918 26th Ave. S. in the City of Seattle, commonly known as Parcel 33 - 918 26th Ave. S., and legally described on the attached Exhibit A (the "Land", which together with all improvements and fixtures now and hereafter thereon, is referred to as the "Property"), and generally located as shown on the map attached hereto as Exhibit B. Such map is attached solely for convenience of reference and does not qualify in any way the description of the Property, nor constitute or evidence any representation or warranty of any kind as to dimensions or boundaries, or any other information shown thereon, it being the intent of the parties that the Purchaser assumes the risk of any discrepancies or inaccuracies in such map.

 Section 2. Purchase Price, Security, and Conveyance

 2.01 Purchase Price, Security

 A. The total Purchase Price is $85,000. Purchaser shall, at Closing, deliver a non-recourse promissory note in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C ("Note") in the amount of $85,000. The Note shall be secured by a Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents, and Security Agreement ("Deed of Trust") on the Land and on the lessor's interest in the Ground Leases described below, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit D.

 B. So long as any amount is outstanding on the Note, the Land shall be owned by a nonprofit entity dedicated to maintaining homeownership for Low-income Home Buyers ("Nonprofit Entity") and such Nonprofit Entity shall lease of each parcel of the Land on which a home is located to the Low-income Home Buyer that occupies that home, using a long term (99 year) ground lease that ensures future affordability by restricting the future resale price as set forth in this Agreement ("Ground Lease"). As set forth in the Note, the City shall have the right to declare the Note immediately due and payable if any part of the Land is no longer owned by a Nonprofit Entity or if at any time any improvements or a lessee's interest in a Ground Lease are transferred to anyone other than a Low-income Home Buyer (except as otherwise expressly permitted in the Note) or if the improvements or leasehold are sold on terms contrary to the City- approved affordability standards, and if after any such transfer or sale the Purchaser fails to exercise remedies so as to cause the transfer of the improvements to an eligible home buyer on approved terms within ___ months.

 2.02 Conveyance.

 Upon (a) the payment of all amounts required to be paid by Purchaser at Closing hereunder, and (b) the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in this Agreement, the City shall convey the Property, by Quitclaim Deed in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "Deed"), which is hereby approved as to form by Purchaser.

 Section 3. Purpose of Sale; Improvements; Low-Income Housing

 3.01 Purpose of Sale

 The intent of this sale is to enable the Purchaser to promptly move a house onto the Property and rehabilitate it, and construct a second house and related improvements on the Property (such houses and other improvements are referred to collectively as "Improvements"), consistent with this Contract and according to the attached Schematic Design, Summary Description, & Construction Plan and Schedule. The Improvements on the Property are to be sold to Low-income Home Buyers. The Land under the Improvements will be owned in perpetuity by a nonprofit entity and the portion on which each home is located shall be leased to the Home Buyer for 99 years. Future affordability will be maintained through resale restrictions in the Ground Lease.

 3.02 Improvements; Ground Leases

 A. The Improvements to be developed on the Property shall include one relocated house and the construction of a new house, each of which shall be sold initially to Low-income Home Buyers. The Purchaser shall issue each Home Buyer a 99-year Ground Lease that includes resale restrictions that prohibit subsequent sales and other transfers, except to Low-income Home Buyers. The Seller reserves the right to review the Purchaser's files to ensure that each initial buyer is a Low-income Home Buyer. Any failure by Purchaser to maintain sufficient documentation to demonstrate that initial buyers are Low-income Home Buyers shall be a default hereunder.

 B. The primary method for assuring future affordability of the houses and preventing windfall profits from the future sale of the houses shall be through the resale provisions contained in a ground lease of each parcel of the Property on which a home is located ("Ground Lease"), in form and content reasonably acceptable to the Seller, under which the lessor's interest is to be held by a Nonprofit Entity, anticipated to be Homestead Community Land Trust ("Homestead"). Purchaser and Nonprofit Entity shall provide all final Ground Lease and loan documents relating to the sales to Home Buyers to the City for approval prior to the Closing, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed. There shall be no amendment or modification of a Ground Lease without the express written approval of the City.

 C. The Ground Lease shall be executed by the Nonprofit Entity and the Home Buyer at the time the Improvements are transferred to the Home Buyer and shall be recorded prior any deeds to Improvements granted to Home Buyers and any deeds of trust granted by Home Buyers.

 D. Purchaser shall ensure that all sales and transfers of any home on the Property, and of the lessee's interest in any Ground Lease for any of the Property, are made only to Low-income Home Buyers, and only on terms affordable to such Home Buyers. Without limiting the foregoing, Purchaser shall diligently enforce the terms of each Ground Lease with respect to eligible transferees and permitted consideration for transfers. With respect to any transfer of any Ground Lessee's interest or transfer of any of the Improvements, Purchaser shall provide documentation of sale price and income of new Home Buyers to the City, at least ten (10) working days prior to transfer demonstrating that such transfer complied with the Ground Lease and with this Agreement.

 3.03 Low-income housing

 For purposes of this Agreement:

 (1) "Home Buyer" means a person or persons who enter into a Ground Lease as tenants and acquire title to a house on the Property.

 (2) "Low-income Home Buyer" is a Home Buyer with annual household income, at the time of closing on the improvements, at or below 80% of the Median Income.

 (3) "Median Income" means annual median family income for the Seattle-Bellevue-Everett Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area, or for the Seattle-Bellevue-Everett Division of the Seattle-Tacoma- Bellevue Metropolitan Statistical Area, whichever is then generally used by HUD to establish income limits for federal programs, as published from time to time by HUD, or such other area including Seattle as HUD may use from time to time for the purpose of publishing median income, and as adjusted for household size according to the method used by HUD for income limits in subsidized housing. If, at any time, Median Income for a household size cannot be determined under the foregoing sentence based on data published by HUD for the Seattle area within the most recent thirteen months, then the City may determine "Median Income" for such household size based on any data for the Seattle area or an area including Seattle, published or reported by a federal, state, or local agency, as the City shall select in its sole discretion, adjusted for household size in such manner as the City shall determine in its sole discretion.

 (4) A unit is considered "affordable" to a Low-income Home Buyer if annual housing costs do not exceed 35% of Monthly Income. For purposes of this definition, "housing costs" include mortgage principal and interest, property taxes, homeowners insurance, ground rents, homeowner association dues and/or assessments. This percentage may be changed in the future with the written agreement of the Seller.

 (5) "HUD" means the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and any other department or agency that shall succeed to its functions with respect to publishing income limits for federal programs.

 Section 4. Title Insurance

 A. The City shall pay the cost of an ALTA Standard Coverage Owner's policy of title insurance for Purchaser, issued by Pacific Northwest Title Insurance Company, Inc. ("Title Company") in the amount of the Purchase Price of the Property, insuring Purchaser as the sole fee title holder as to the Property.

 B. Purchaser has reviewed a preliminary title commitment from the Title Company, Order no. ___________, dated ____________, 2006, as supplemented through supplement no. ____ dated _____________, 2006 (as so supplemented, the "Title Commitment," which is attached hereto as Exhibit F), along with all documents referenced in the Title Commitment. Any claims, liens, encumbrances and defects (collectively, "Permitted Exceptions") shown thereon are hereby approved and accepted by Purchaser, except for exceptions __________________ regarding ______________. Prior to the date of closing, the City shall not further encumber the Property, or permit additional encumbrances to attach to the Property. If title to the Property is not insurable on the date fixed for Closing free and clear of all liens, except for the Permitted Exceptions and any that may be created or suffered by Purchaser, then unless the Purchaser elects to accept the liens or the parties, by mutual written agreement, extend the date for Closing to allow the City or the Purchaser, to remove such liens, this Agreement shall immediately terminate, in which case neither party shall have any further liability or obligation, of any kind whatsoever, to the other under this Agreement (except pursuant to Section 705 and pursuant to indemnity provisions, which survive termination of this Agreement).

 C. Purchaser may obtain such additional title insurance coverage as Purchaser chooses, if Purchaser pays any difference in the cost between the standard coverage policy to be paid by the City and the increased premium due from any increase in the scope or amount of coverage or endorsements.

 Section 5. Conditions Precedent to Closing and Construction

 A. The following conditions must be satisfied prior to the installation, renovation or construction of improvements (collectively, "Construction"):

 1. Purchaser shall have performed its obligations under Section 101 hereof, except those that by their nature must be performed after Construction commences, and shall have obtained all of the permits and financing to be sought thereunder.

 2. Purchaser and Nonprofit Entity shall have provided detailed descriptions of roles and responsibilities of entities that will be involved in Construction, identifying and qualifying homebuyers, and land ownership. Purchaser also shall have provided a development timeline,CConstruction and take-out financing structure, development budgets, draft documents to be used relating to Ground Lease and sale of improvements, and any other materials or documents reasonably requested by the City that describe how the house(s) will remain affordable to subsequent Low-income Home Buyers. Requested descriptions, information, and documents shall be provided to the City at least 30 days prior to moving any structure onto the Land or start of any aspect of Construction, and in any event prior to August 31, 2006. All such descriptions, documents and entities must be acceptable to the City in its discretion.

 3. No later than August 31, 2006, Purchaser shall have secured all required approvals to move an existing home onto the Land and to begin Construction.

 4. Purchaser shall have obtained approval from the Director of the Office of Housing ("Director") for the Schematic Design and it shall have been submitted to the Director, as provided in Sections 302 and 303.

 B. The following shall be conditions precedent to the City's obligation to convey the Property:

 1. Purchaser shall have completed the installation and renovation of one home and construction of a second house on the Property, in each case consistent with the approved and recorded short plat and the Schematic Design, Summary Description, & Construction Plan and Schedule.

 2. Purchaser shall have completed any agreements needed with the Nonprofit Entity that will assume ownership of the Property, anticipated to be Homestead. Purchaser shall propose assignment to a nonprofit, anticipated to be Homestead, for City approval prior to Closing.

 3. Purchaser shall have provided the Director with updated financial information acceptable to the Director, including development budget and anticipated sales prices, demonstrating that units will be affordable to Low-income Home Buyers. Purchaser shall have provided all additional information requested by the Director, which must be acceptable to the Director.

 4. Purchaser shall have provided the Director with anticipated resale restrictions ensuring the permanent affordability to Low- income Home Buyers.

 5. Purchaser shall provide the Director with evidence demonstrating that Low-income Home Buyers are identified and ready to proceed with the purchase of each of the two homes on the Property, in each case together with execution of a Ground Lease, in form and content acceptable to Seller, on a legal lot on which the home is located. Purchaser shall have full responsibility for selection of the initial Home Buyers in carrying out the program and complying with all affirmative marketing requirements adopted by the City pursuant to 24 CFR Section 92.351, and with the following conditions:

 (a) The initial Home Buyers must each have a household income at or below 80% of the Median Income.

 (b) Purchaser shall be responsible for obtaining at its own expense any necessary appraisals upon substantial completion of the houses for purposes of the initial house sales and Ground Leases. Habitat shall provide a copy of each appraisal to the Seller promptly upon receipt of the appraisal.

 6. If down payment assistance is needed from Office of Housing and if Office of Housing shall have agreed to provide funds to Purchaser in order for Purchaser to provide such assistance to initial Home Buyers, Purchaser shall have provided a Memorandum Of Understanding, acceptable to Seller, outlining authorized use of repaid funds to Purchaser to assist future eligible Home Buyers and a process for identifying and determining eligibility of future Home Buyers.

 7. Purchaser's representations contained herein shall be true as of the Closing of the Property.

 8. Purchaser shall have signed the Deed.

 9. Purchaser shall otherwise be in compliance with all of the terms hereof.

 The foregoing conditions are solely for the benefit of the City and may be waived at the City's sole option, but no waiver shall be valid unless signed by an authorized officer of the City. Unless each of the conditions in subsection A and this Subsection B is satisfied or waived on or before the earlier of the date set forth for the respective condition above, or November 2, 2007, this Agreement shall immediately terminate, without notice, and City shall have no obligation to convey the Property.

 C. The following shall be conditions precedent to Purchaser's obligation to purchase the Property:

 1. The City shall have deposited with the Escrow Agent the Deed and a properly completed and signed real estate excise tax affidavit.

 2. At Closing, title to the Property shall be insurable free and clear of all liens except for the Permitted Exceptions and any others created by Purchaser.

 Section 6. Closing; Effect of Failure to Close

 A. "Closing" shall mean the execution, delivery and recording (as appropriate) of all documents and payment of all funds into escrow as provided herein.

 B. Closing shall take place on such date as the Purchaser shall specify in a written notice to the City, which written notice (i) shall be delivered to the City at least ten (10) days in advance of the Closing Date specified in such written notice, and (ii) may be given at any time within, but not later than forty five (45) days after all conditions required herein to be satisfied prior to Closing, other than deposit of funds and instructions in escrow, have been satisfied, but in any event Closing shall occur no later than two years from the effective date of the authorizing ordinance. If Closing does not occur on or before that date, this Agreement shall then terminate, without notice.

 C. At least five (5) days in advance of the date fixed for Closing the Seller shall deliver to the Purchaser an unsigned original of the Deed to the Property, in the form attached as Exhibit A but with exhibit designations removed, which shall be signed by and acknowledged by the Purchaser and returned to the Seller at least three (3) days prior to the date fixed for Closing. At least two (2) days in advance of the date fixed for Closing, the City and Purchaser shall each deliver to the Escrow Agent for deposit into escrow, all of the documents required by this Agreement as conditions to Closing, bearing all the original signatures called for therein, together with reasonable escrow instructions.

 D. At Closing, the Escrow Agent shall be instructed to record the Deed, the Deed of Trust, Ground Leases to the Home Buyers, and deeds conveying the Improvements to the Home Buyers, and any documents for the Home Buyers' financing, in the order listed in this subsection.

 E. Any taxes, assessments or public charges that are payable by the City with respect to the Property during the City's ownership thereof shall be prorated and paid by the City as of Closing. Purchaser shall pay all costs of Closing, including without limitation escrow fees and recording charges.

 If the sale fails to close due to fault of one of the parties, as described in Sections 702 and 703 of Part III of this Agreement, then such party shall be solely responsible for all escrow and title insurance cancellation charges. If the sale fails to close by the date set forth in subsection B above for reasons other than those set forth in Sections 702 or 703, then the Purchaser shall pay directly to the Escrow Agent all escrow fees and title insurance cancellation charges and neither party shall have any further liability or obligation, of any kind whatsoever, to the other under this Agreement, except for any obligation of the Purchaser for removal or restoration pursuant to Section 705 hereof (and except pursuant to indemnity provisions, which survive termination of this Agreement).

 Part II

 SUBPART 100 - DEVELOPMENT OF PROPERTY

 Section 101. Habitat to Develop at its Own Risk

 Habitat shall use diligent efforts to pursue design work, grant or financing applications, environmental reports, permit applications and all other steps necessary to construct and permanently finance improvements on the Property as described in Section 3 of Ordinance __________ of the City. All such efforts of Habitat shall be at its own expense and risk. Habitat shall construct a new house and rehabilitate a house to be moved onto the Property by Habitat as soon as reasonably possible.

 No later than ______________, 2006, Habitat shall file, and thereafter Habitat shall diligently pursue, at Habitat's sole expense, a complete application with the Department of Planning and Development to obtain approval of a short subdivision of the Property, in a manner acceptable to the Director, to permit the development of two houses on the Property. If the Director approves the proposed manner of subdividing the Land then the City, in its capacity as land owner, shall sign such documents as are necessary for the Department of Planning and Development to process such short subdivision application, but the Director's approval shall not constitute any assurance of compliance with requirements for short subdivision. If, for any reason, a short subdivision is not finally approved for recording prior to _____________________, 2006 then the City shall have the right, by notice to Purchaser, to terminate this Contract without any liability to Purchaser.

 Section 102. Compliance with Schematic Design, Summary Description, & Construction Plan

 Purchaser shall, prior to Closing, develop the Property with improvements substantially as described in Exhibit G, "Schematic Design, Summary Description, & Construction Plan and Schedule" as the same may be modified with the consent of the City as provided hereunder, and in compliance with all applicable state and local laws and regulations.

 Section 103. Ownership of Improvements.

 All improvements and additions made by Purchaser prior to Closing shall be the property of Purchaser, subject to Section 705 herein.

 SUBPART 200 - ACCEPTANCE, CONDITION AND POSSESSION OF PROPERTY

 Section 201. Acceptance AS IS; Remediation of Hazardous Substances

 Purchaser has inspected the Property and has had the opportunity to obtain inspections and reports of professionals, and Purchaser agrees to accept the Property AS IS, WITH ALL DEFECTS, and ASSUMES THE RISK of any defects in the condition of the Property and of all the matters set forth in this Section. The City makes NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS OF ANY KIND except as may be set forth specifically in this Agreement. Purchaser agrees that any express or implied representations or warranties made by or on behalf of the City prior to this Agreement are hereby revoked and canceled and shall have no force or effect. Purchaser further agrees that no representations or warranties are implied by any provision of this Agreement or any other words or conduct in connection with this transaction.

 Without limiting the generality of the foregoing paragraph, Purchaser agrees that, except as may be specifically set forth in this Agreement, neither City nor any person for whom City may have any responsibility makes any representation, warranty or promise of any kind with regard to any of the following: (1) the physical condition of the Property (land, buildings, fixtures, or infrastructure), whether or not readily determined by inspection and whether or not information related to such condition is in the possession of the City; (2) the presence or absence of any underground tanks or any hazardous or defective substances or conditions on or about the Property, or on adjacent properties; (3) the history of the Property or activities that may have occurred or been conducted thereon or thereunder; (4) soils conditions or drainage; (5) square footage of land or buildings; (6) encroachments; or (7) location or condition of utility lines.

 Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Purchaser hereby irrevocably releases and waives any and all claims that Purchaser has or may have against City and its officers, employees and agents with respect to the condition of the Property or arising pursuant to the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or the Washington State Model Toxics Control Act, as amended, or any other environmental law. The provisions of this Section shall not be construed to limit in any way the scope of the release, covenants and indemnity obligations to be granted and assumed by the Purchaser under the Deed.

 Purchaser agrees to abate and properly dispose of all Hazardous Substances on the Property, and in any structure moved onto the Property by Purchaser, all in full compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, prudent practices and federal guidelines (including without limitation HUD regulations concerning lead-based paint), and to make all necessary disclosures in connection with sales of the homes on the Property.

 The term "Hazardous Substances" in this Agreement shall mean any and all hazardous, toxic, infectious or radioactive substances, wastes or materials as defined or listed by any federal, state or local statute, regulation or ordinance pertaining to the protection of human health or the environment and shall specifically include lead, asbestos, petroleum oil and its fractions.

 Purchaser and City by the initials below acknowledge that this Section has been specifically bargained for and that City would not be willing to sell the Property on the terms and conditions set forth in the rest of this Agreement without Purchaser's agreement to this Section.

 Purchaser:_______ City:_________

 Section 202. Changes in Condition

 Purchaser has inspected the Property in its present condition as of the date of this Agreement and such inspection has not disclosed any physical condition that would materially impair the development thereof as contemplated hereunder.

 Purchaser is entitled to possession of the Property, and assumes all of the burdens and responsibilities thereof, effective on execution of this Agreement. Therefore, Purchaser assumes all risks of changes in the physical condition of the Property or any portion thereof after the date of this Agreement.

 Section 203. Possession prior to Closing; Risk of Loss, Indemnification and Insurance

 As between City and Purchaser, Purchaser's right to possession of the Property is effective upon the date of this Agreement. Prior to Closing, such right to possession is subject to the terms of the Right of Entry for Construction Agreement between City and Purchaser dated on or about the date hereof, and thereafter subject to the rights of the City reserved in the Deed. After transfer of possession Purchaser shall have all risk of loss and shall indemnify and hold harmless the City from any liability in connection with the possession, development or maintenance of the Property. Until Closing Purchaser shall maintain insurance against any such liability, in amounts and with coverages satisfactory to the City as specified in the Right of Entry for Construction Agreement, with the City named as additional insured. Upon transfer of possession Purchaser shall be responsible for all utilities, repairs and maintenance of the Property.

 Section 204. Purchaser's Entry and Possession

 The Purchaser acknowledges that it has been afforded the opportunity, directly and through its agents or contractors, to enter on the Property and perform certain tests, including soil borings. Habitat is executing with Seller, simultaneously with the execution hereof a Right of Entry for Construction Agreement. Any breach or default by Habitat under the terms of that agreement shall be a default hereunder.

 Section 205. Indemnification.

 Purchaser hereby agrees to release and forever discharge, indemnify, defend and hold the City, and its elected officials, employees and agents, harmless from and against any and all liability, including without limitation any claims, liability, costs, damages or fees (including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) incurred as a result of or in connection with Purchaser's entry onto any portion of the Property owned by the City, and all activities of Purchaser contemplated by this Agreement, including but not limited to any such liability related to Purchaser's release of any Hazardous Substances or Purchaser's failure to abate or dispose of Hazardous Substances as required by this Agreement. This indemnity includes, without limitation, any and call claims or demands that may be made against the City by any contractor, subcontractor, laborer, material supplier, or governmental agency related to any contract, subcontract, work, labor, or wages and benefits paid or omitted.

 SUBPART 300 - PLANS, APPROVALS, FINANCING AND CONSTRUCTION

 Section 301. Community Meetings on Design

 If so requested by the Director, Purchaser agrees to attend one or more community meetings to present the plans for improvements to the Property and hear comments from neighboring residents and businesses, which comments shall not be binding upon Purchaser or require Purchaser to amend the design or other documents relating to the improvements.

 Section 302. Construction Plan and Schedule

 Purchaser shall prepare a Schematic Design & Summary Description for approval of the Director prior to the start of Construction activities. Purchaser shall prepare a Construction Plan and Schedule prior to start of Construction activities, as outlined in the Right of Entry Agreement for Construction.

 Habitat agrees to provide the City with a copy of its budget prior to initiation of Construction and to keep the City fully informed of any material changes during the course of Construction.

 Section 303. Permits

 The parties acknowledge that the redevelopment of the Property and the requirements of this Agreement necessitate that Purchaser apply for and obtain certain permits and other similar authorizations (collectively, the "Permits") from the City and other governmental agencies relating to the Property and the Improvements prior to Purchaser obtaining fee title to the Property. The term "Permits" shall include without limitation use permits; building permits; short plats and lot boundary adjustments and other similar authorizations and approvals; grading permits; shoring permits; permits for work in public rights-of-way; and utility permits.

 Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to require that the City exercise its discretionary authority under its regulatory ordinances to further the development of the Property, nor binds the City to do so. The City will process applications for Permits as if such applications were made in the absence of this Agreement. Purchaser assumes the risk of inability to obtain any such approvals, consents, or permits, for any reason. No consent, approval or requirement contained in or made by the Director of Housing or her designees pursuant to this Agreement shall constitute the approval, consent, or Permit required for any regulatory or other City purpose, nor require the City to grant any such approval, consent, or Permit. No regulatory requirement, condition or recommendation related to any Permit shall constitute approval for any change in the Scope of Work or for any Construction Plans or changes therein, nor obligate the Director of Housing to grant any such approval.

 PART III - GENERAL

 SUBPART 400 - REGULATORY CONDITIONS

 Section 401. Non-Discrimination; Fair Contracting Practices

 A. The Purchaser shall not create barriers to open and fair opportunities for women and minority-owned businesses ("WMBEs ") to participate in contracts and to obtain or compete for contracts and subcontracts as sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services related to the development of the Property. In considering offers from and doing business with contractors and suppliers, the Purchaser shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, age, national origin, marital status, sexual orientation or the presence of any mental or physical disability in an otherwise qualified disabled person.

 B. Each party is required to comply with the Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance of the City of Seattle (Ordinance 119601), as amended. Conduct made unlawful by that ordinance constitutes a breach of contract. Engaging in an unfair contracting practice may also result in the imposition of a civil fine or forfeiture under the Seattle Criminal Code as well as various civil remedies.

 SUBPART 500 - PURPOSE OF PURCHASE; PROHIBITIONS AGAINST ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER

 Section 501. Improvements

 Purchaser represents and agrees that the purchase of the Property is for the purpose of immediate development of the two houses and not for speculation in land holding.

 Section 502. Transfer of Property and Assignment of Agreement

 Prior to Closing, Purchaser shall not transfer this Agreement or any interest herein (other than to a Nonprofit Entity upon completion of two houses on the Property) without the express written consent of the City, and the City shall not be required to recognize any rights of any assignee to which it has not given express written consent.

 In the absence of a specific written agreement by the City to the contrary, no transfer or consent thereto by the City shall relieve Purchaser or any other party bound in any way by this Agreement or otherwise with respect to the Construction of the Improvements, from any of its obligations. Prior to the completion of the Construction of the houses on the Property, Purchaser shall not transfer title to the Property or any interest therein without the express written consent of the City.

 Section 503. Abandonment

 Upon abandonment of the Property, or any lot thereof, by Habitat at any stage of Construction prior to substantial completion and closing of the initial sales of the homes on the Property, or prior to the closing of the sale of the home on one lot thereof, Purchaser shall be in default hereunder and the Seller shall have the right immediately to terminate this Agreement by notice to Purchaser. As used herein, the term "abandonment" means that Habitat has ceased working on the Improvements for a period of at least 90 consecutive days and has not indicated resumed work thereon within 30 days after delivery of written notice to Habitat by either the City or the Nonprofit Entity.

 Habitat agrees to communicate fully with the City and Homestead and to provide reasonable notice of any potential abandonment.

 SUBPART 700 - DEFAULT; REMEDIES AND EFFECT OF TERMINATION

 Section 701. Default

 Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, in the event of any default in or breach of this Agreement, or any of its terms or conditions, by any party hereto, or any successor to a party, such party (or successor) shall, upon written notice from the other, proceed immediately to cure or remedy such default or breach, and, in any event, shall complete such cure within sixty (60) days after receipt of such notice or such shorter period as may be provided herein. In case such action is not taken or not diligently pursued, or the default or breach shall not be cured or remedied within the time permitted hereunder, the aggrieved party may pursue any remedies available at law or in equity, subject to the specific limitations herein. This Section shall not affect the operation of Section 501 above or Section 702 or 703 below, nor require any notice or opportunity to cure prior to exercise of remedies under those Sections.

 Section 702. Remedies Upon Default of City

 Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, in the event that any of the following occurs:

 The City fails to tender conveyance of the Property or otherwise close on the Property in the manner required herein after satisfaction of the conditions provided in this Agreement and receipt of a notice to close from Purchaser as specified herein, and any such failure shall not be cured within sixty (60) days after notice from the Purchaser; or

 The Director of the Office of Housing fails or refuses to approve of Purchaser's Construction Documents pursuant to the terms of this Agreement without providing a written explanation for such refusal, and such failure or refusal is not cured within sixty (60) days after written notice thereof; or

 The City otherwise fails or refuses to comply with the terms and conditions of or is in default or breach of this Agreement prior to Closing, and does not cure such breach within sixty (60) days after written notice thereof;

 then at the option of Purchaser this Agreement shall be terminated, upon written notice to the City of such termination, and Purchaser shall have the right, as its sole remedy, to proceed against the City for actual damages, limited to out-of-pocket costs directly related to development of the Property, not to exceed $5,000, or Purchaser may seek to specifically enforce this Agreement. Such termination and proceeding for such damages or action for specific performance shall be Purchaser's only remedies for breach or default by the City at or prior to Closing. As used herein, the term "out-of-pocket costs" excludes administrative or overhead costs and consequential damages of any kind whatsoever, such as but without limitation lost profits, lost business opportunities or interference with business or contractual expectancies.

 Section 703. Remedies Upon Default of Purchaser

 A. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, in the event that prior to the conveyance of the Property to Purchaser, any of the following occurs:

 (a) Purchaser (or any successor in interest) assigns or attempts to assign this Agreement or any rights therein or in the Property without the express written consent of the City where required hereunder; or

 (b) Purchaser does not submit Construction Documents acceptable to the Director as required by this Agreement or obtain the permits necessary to allow Construction, in each case, in the manner and by the dates respectively provided in this Agreement; or

 (c) Purchaser, without legal excuse, gives notice that it will be unable or unwilling to close on the Property provided herein; or

 (d) Purchaser, without legal excuse, does not tender the Promissory Note and take title to the Property and perform all other obligations of Purchaser on or before the date set for Closing hereunder; or

 (e) Purchaser, without legal excuse, otherwise fails to comply with the terms of or is in default or breach of this Agreement prior to Closing and does not cure such breach within sixty (60) days after written notice thereof; then at the option of the City, after first providing written notice to Purchaser, this Agreement and any rights of Purchaser or of any assignee or transferee in this Agreement or arising therefrom with respect to the City or the Property shall be terminated.

 B. If after Closing Purchaser shall be in breach or default of any of its obligations hereunder, and such breach or default shall not be fully cured within thirty (30) days after notice from the City, then at the City's option, the entire balance owing on the Note may be declared immediately due and payable without notice.

 Section 704. Other Rights and Remedies; No Waiver of Delay

 Either party shall have the right to institute such actions or proceedings as it may deem desirable for effectuating its remedies, subject to express limits herein. Any delay by either party in instituting or prosecuting any such actions or proceedings or otherwise asserting its rights under this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of any rights or remedies or to deprive it of or limit such rights or remedies in any way; nor shall any waiver in fact and in writing made with respect to any specific default be considered or treated as a waiver of the rights or remedies of either party with respect to any other defaults or with respect to the particular default except to the extent specifically waived in writing.

 Section 705. Effect of Termination Prior to Closing.

 Upon any termination of this Agreement without Closing having occurred, whether or not based on default:

 A. All improvements and additions remaining on the Property thirty (30) days after such termination shall become the property of the City, excepting only such items as the Seller shall direct the Purchaser to remove, by written notice to Purchaser within ten (10) days after the end of such thirty (30) day period. If the Seller so orders any items removed, the Purchaser shall, within ten (10) days thereafter, remove and properly dispose of such items at Purchaser's sole expense. Purchaser shall immediately repair any damage or unsafe condition caused by Purchaser's removal of improvements or additions, whether before or after termination.

 B. Purchaser shall pay, and shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all responsibility for, any amounts owing for work and materials on or for the Property prior to termination, unless the City shall have contracted for such work or materials, or in connection with activities after termination pursuant to this Section, and any liens claimed against the Property and/or the improvements thereon for any of the foregoing, and any expenses incurred by the City related to any of the foregoing, including without limitation reasonable attorneys' fees.

 C. Except in case of termination by Purchaser for default of Seller, Purchaser shall, promptly upon the Seller's request, restore the Property to a condition in all respects no worse than at the time of this Agreement was entered into.

 SUBPART 800 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

 Section 801. [RESERVED]

 Section 802. City's Representations and Warranties

 For the purposes of inducing Purchaser to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby City represents and warrants to Purchaser as follows:

 (a) City has full power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement, and all other documents and certificates contemplated hereby; the City has duly authorized the execution, delivery and performance thereof; and has authorized the person executing this Agreement to do so;

 (b) Except as expressly provided herein, there is not pending or, to the best of the knowledge of the City's Housing Director, threatened (i) condemnation or similar proceedings with respect to the Property or any part thereof, (ii) legal action of any kind or nature, affecting the Property that would enjoin or restrict the right of City to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby;

 (c) The Property is not affected by any special assessment, whether or not a lien thereon, that has not or will not be paid in full by City prior to the Closing Date.

 Section 803. Purchaser's Representations and Warranties

 Purchaser represents and warrants that it is a duly organized and validly existing not-for-profit corporation and has full power and authority to enter into and perform this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby; the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the undersigned individual has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action; and this Agreement is the valid, binding obligation of Purchaser, enforceable in accordance with its terms.

 Section 804. Notices

 A notice or communication under this Agreement by one party to any other party shall be in writing and shall be effective on the earlier of the date actually received by hand delivery or by mail as evidenced by a signed receipt for certified mail, or three (3) days after deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the addresses listed below for the parties or to such other addresses as the parties may, from time to time, designate in writing delivered as provided in this Section. Any notice required or permitted by any applicable law also shall be effective if given in the manner specifically required or permitted by such law.

 PURCHASER: Attn: Dorothy Bullitt Habitat for Humanity Seattle/King County 13925 Interurban Ave S, Suite 200 Tukwila, WA 98168

 THE CITY: Adrienne E. Quinn, Director City of Seattle Office of Housing 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5700 PO Box 94725Seattle, WA 98124-4725

 Section 805. Agreement Survives Conveyance

 It is the intent of the parties hereto that the following provisions of this Agreement shall not be merged by reason of any deed transferring any interest in any real or personal property: 3.01-3.03, 101, 201, 203, 205, 401, 501, 502, 701, 703B, 704, 705 and 802-819, inclusive, and Exhibit E. Any such deeds shall not be deemed to in any way affect or impair any of the provisions, conditions, covenants, or terms of the foregoing Sections of this Agreement or the Exhibits referred to therein, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.

 Section 806. Interpretation

 Any titles of the several Parts, Subparts or Sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall be disregarded in construing or interpreting any of its provisions. The Exhibits are by this reference incorporated into this Agreement.

 Section 807. Counterparts

 This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such counterparts shall constitute one and the same instrument.

 Section 808. City Approval and Consent

 The Mayor and the Director are the sole persons authorized to act for and on behalf of the City in connection with this Agreement except where another is required to act by law or by this Agreement.

 Section 809. Entire Agreement

 This Agreement, including recitals and Exhibits, attached hereto, constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and all prior or contemporaneous oral or written agreements, understandings, statements, documents, reports, studies or communications with respect to the sale of the Property.

 Section 810. Time

 Time is the essence of all provisions of this Agreement.

 Section 811. Partial Invalidity

 Any provision of this Agreement which shall prove to be invalid, void or unenforceable shall in no way affect, impair, or invalidate any other provision hereof, and such other provisions shall remain in full force and effect.

 Section 812. Governing Law; Venue

 This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington. Venue of any action brought to interpret or enforce this Agreement shall be in the Superior Court of King County, Washington at Seattle.

 Section 813. Successors and Assigns

 This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.

 Section 814. No Third Party Beneficiaries; Purchaser to Indemnify for Third-Party Claims

 The provisions hereof are for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and, subject to restrictions on transfers by Purchaser stated herein, their respective successors and assigns. No other parties shall have any rights or remedies hereunder. Purchaser shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City and its officers and employees from any claim or demand by or for any person asserting any promise, representation or statement by Purchaser, or its employees, officers, directors, or agents, with respect to the intended or expected conveyance to any person of any part of the Property or improvements thereon, or interest therein, or with respect to any legal or equitable right claimed by any person based upon such person's contribution to renovation, construction or installation of any improvements.

 Section 815. Amendments

 Amendments to this Agreement may be made only in writing, signed by the City and Purchaser. Amendments that are not fairly within the scope of the Ordinance referred to in the recitals to this Agreement shall not be effective unless authorized by ordinance.

 Section 816. Waiver of Rights Under RCW Chapter 64.06

 Purchaser hereby irrevocably waives the right to receive a disclosure statement pursuant to RCW Chapter 64.06 and waives any right to rescind this Agreement under RCW Chapter 64.06.

 Section 817. Brokerage Commission

 Purchaser and City agree that no real estate brokers are involved in this transaction or shall be compensated in connection with the sale of the Property or any portion thereof. If any such commission or fee is or becomes due by reason of the conduct of one party, then that party shall pay such fee or commission and shall indemnify and hold the other party harmless from and against any liability for the same.

 Section 818. Force Majeure

 In the event that either party is unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement or to enjoy any of its benefits because of acts of God, war, civil commotion, riots, strikes, picketing, other labor disputes, damage to work in progress by reason of fire or other casualty, severe weather, or any other cause beyond the reasonable control of said party (hereinafter referred too as a "Force Majeure Event" or "Event"), the party who has been so affected promptly shall give notice to the other party and shall do everything reasonably possible to resume performance. Upon receipt of such notice, the affected party shall be excused from such performance as is affected by the Force Majeure Event for the period of such Event, not to exceed 90 days, but nothing in this Section shall operate to extend the last date for satisfying the conditions to Closing hereunder.

 Section 819. Calculation of Time

 If the time for performance of any of the terms, conditions and provisions hereof shall fall on a Saturday, Sunday or City of Seattle holiday, then the time of such performance shall be extended to the next day thereafter that is not a Saturday, Sunday or City of Seattle holiday.

 Section 820. Exhibits

 The following Exhibits are part of this Agreement and are incorporated herein by this reference:

 Exhibit A Form of Quitclaim Deed Exhibit B Map of Property Location Exhibit C Form of Promissory Note Exhibit D Form of Deed of Trust Exhibit E Preliminary Title Report with Permitted Exceptions Exhibit F Schematic Design, Summary Description, & Construction Plan

 EXECUTED as of the day and year first above written.

 CITY: THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington By:___________________________ Adrienne E. Quinn Director, Office of Housing

 PURCHASER: Habitat for Humanity of Seattle South King County a Washington nonprofit corporation By: _______________________________ Dorothy Bullitt

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss. COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____day of _________________, 2006, personally appeared before me

 Adrienne E. Quinn, to me known to be Director of the Office of Housing of the City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument and that the seal affixed, if any, is the corporate seal of said municipal corporation.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the date and year first above written. ______________________________________ NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at ___________________ My Commission expires __________________ Print name:_____________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss.

 COUNTY OF K I N G )

 On this _____day of _____________, 2006, personally appeared before me Dorothy Bullitt to me known to be the Executive Director of_______________________________________, the Washington nonprofit corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument and that the seal affixed, if any, is the corporate seal of said corporation.

 In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day and year first above written. ______________________________________ NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of _______________, residing at _____________ My Commission expires __________________ Print name:_____________________________

 Exhibit A: Form of Quitclaim Deed DRAFT for attachment to Property Transfer Agreement

 After recording, return to: Seattle Office of Housing 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5700 P.O. Box 94725 Seattle, WA 981124-4725 Attn: Rick Hooper

 QUITCLAIM DEED with GRANTEE's COVENANTS, RELEASES AND INDEMNITY

 Reference number of related documents: N/A

 Grantor: The City of Seattle

 Grantee: _____________________________

 Tax Parcel No.: 1523300170

 Grant. The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Grantor"), for consideration described in that certain Transfer Agreement described below, hereby conveys and quit claims to _________________________________________________ ("Grantee"), that certain real property located in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, and legally described as follows ("Property"):

 The West 100 feet of Lot 5 in Block 3 of Charles Addition to the City of Seattle, as per plat recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page131, records of King County, Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington; and

 Grantee's Covenants, Releases and Indemnity ("Covenant")

 The Property is conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL-FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE GRANTEE'S INTENDED USES AND PURPOSES. Grantee acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or other conditions (including without limitation, adverse environmental soils and ground-water conditions), either latent or patent, may exist on the Property and assumes Grantor's responsibility for all environmental conditions of the Property, known or unknown, including but not limited to responsibility, if any, for investigation, removal or remediation actions relating to the presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance or other environmental contamination relating to the Property. Grantee also releases, covenants not to sue, and shall indemnify, defend, and hold Grantor and its past, present and future officials, employees, and agents, harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, penalties, fees, damages, losses, expenses (including but not limited to fees and costs of regulatory agencies, attorneys, contractors and consultants), and liabilities arising out of, or in any way connected with, the condition of the Property including but not limited to any alleged or actual past, present or future presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property, or any portion thereof or improvement thereon, from any cause whatsoever; it being intended that Grantee shall so indemnify Grantor and such personnel without regard to any fault or responsibility of Grantor or Grantee. Grantee is aware of the rights it might otherwise have to seek recovery from Grantor for costs of remediation and cleanup of Hazardous Substances under applicable law, including without limitation the Washington Model Toxics Control Act ("MTCA") and the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), and Grantee hereby knowingly waives all such rights, now existing or hereafter arising, and voluntarily relinquishes those rights and forever releases the Grantor from any such obligation. The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property and the acknowledgements, releases, and covenants herein touch and concern the Property, are intended to run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Grantor and its successors and assigns.

 For purposes of this Covenant, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs") and compounds containing them; lead, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage tanks; and any substance or material that is now is or hereafter becomes regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or other law relating to environmental protection, contamination or cleanup.

 Grantee's release and covenant not to sue shall include both claims by Grantee as original plaintiff against Grantor and any cross- claims, third-party claims or other claims against Grantor by Grantee based upon claims made against Grantee by any third parties. The obligation to indemnify and defend shall include, but not be limited to, any liability of Grantor to any and all federal, state or local regulatory agencies or other persons or entities for remedial action costs and natural resources damages claims. This Covenant means that Grantee accepts the Property "as-is, where-is and with-all- faults," and that Grantee assumes all responsibility of Grantor to investigate, remove and remediate any environmental conditions on the Property and has no recourse against Grantor or any of its officers, employees or agents for any claim or liability with respect to the Property. This Covenant shall apply regardless of whether or not Grantee is culpable, negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation. Nothing herein shall release, discharge or affect any rights or causes of action that Grantor or Grantee may have against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly stated herein, and each of the parties reserves all such rights including, but not limited to, claims for contribution or cost recovery relating to any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property.

 Nondiscrimination. Grantee further covenants that there shall be no discrimination upon the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, in the sale, lease or rental, or in the use or occupancy, of the Property or any improvements erected or to be erected thereon. Both the Grantor and the United States of America shall be entitled to enforce this paragraph, which shall run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns.

 The terms of this Covenant are in addition to, and not in substitution for, those terms of the Transfer Agreement dated ______________, 2006 between Grantor and Grantee (the "Contract") that, by the terms of such Contract, survive the delivery of this deed.

 Executed this ____day of ___________, 2006, pursuant to Ordinance __________ of The City of Seattle.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE By: ___________________________ Adrienne E. Quinn, Director Office of Housing

 Grantee: _________________ By: Print Name: ______________ Print Title: ______________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________, 2006, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Adrienne E. Quinn, to me known to be the Director of the Office of Housing of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal corporation on behalf of which the within and foregoing instrument was executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this instrument above written. ______________________ (Signature) (Print or Type Name)_________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at ___________.

 My commission expires ____________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________, 2006, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of _____________, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ______________________, to me known to be the __________________________ of ____________________________________, the Washington nonprofit corporation on behalf of which the within and foregoing instrument was executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this instrument above written. ________________ _________________ (Signature) (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of _____________, residing at My commission expires _________________

[Exhibit B to Attachment - Map of Property Location](/~ordpics/115560AtAExB.jpg)

 Exhibit C: Form of Promissory Note PROMISSORY NOTE (Secured) $85,000 Seattle, Washington Date: ________________, 2006

 1) Promise to Pay. For value received, ______________________________________________, a Washington _________ corporation (hereinafter referred to as "Maker"), promises to pay in lawful money of the United States of America, to the order of THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), a Washington municipal corporation, at 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5700, Post Office Box 94725, Seattle, WA 98124-4725, or such other place as the holder of this Note may designate in writing from time to time, the principal sum of Eighty- five Thousand dollars and no cents ($85,000.00), with interest as set forth herein.

 2) Contract. This Note is made pursuant to a Property Transfer Agreement dated as of ________________, 2006 between the Maker and the named payee ("Contract"), to evidence the unpaid purchase price of certain real property located at 918 26th Ave. S. in Seattle, Washington. Capitalized terms used and not defined herein shall have the meanings specified in the Contract unless the context otherwise clearly requires.

 3) When Payment is Due. The principal amount of this Note, accrued interest, and all other amounts owing hereunder, unless earlier accelerated under the terms of this Note or any documents securing this Note, are due and payable, at the holder's option, (a) if the Property or any part thereof is not maintained in use for residential purposes; or (b) if the Property or any part thereof is sold or otherwise transferred, whether by operation of law or otherwise, except for the following: the initial grant of the Ground Leases and deeds of improvements to Low-income Home Buyers, and subsequent assignments or transfers of Ground Leases and transfers of improvements to Low-income Home Buyers as permitted by Ground Lease terms.

 4) Interest Rate. Maker shall pay interest on the outstanding principal of this Note at the rate of 3% per annum from the date hereof. All interest shall be due and payable on the date on which the principal balance shall become due. Any amounts past due hereunder, including accrued interest, shall bear interest at 10% per annum or the highest rate allowed by applicable law, whichever shall be less.

 5) Default and Acceleration. Any default under the Contract or the Deed of Trust securing this Note shall constitute a default under this Note, and upon such default the holder of this Note shall have the right, without notice or demand, to declare all amounts owing hereunder immediately due and payable. This Section applies to a default by any successors in interest to the Maker of this Note with respect to any of the Property, whether or not the Maker shall have caused or permitted such default and whether or not the transfer to such successor shall have been approved or permitted by the holder hereof.

 6) Prepayment. The principal amount of this Note may be prepaid in full or in part at any time.

 7) Costs and Attorneys' Fees. In case Maker defaults in payment of this Note, Maker agrees to pay all of the holder's costs of collection, including but not limited to, reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the holder of this Note whether or not suit is instituted. If any legal proceedings are instituted relating to this Note, including without limitation any arbitration, bankruptcy, trial or appellate proceedings, Maker shall pay the holder's costs, including reasonable attorney's fees, in all such proceedings.

 8) Waivers. Maker hereby waives presentment, demand for payment and notice of dishonor. The holder of this Note may forgo or delay enforcing any rights or remedies under this Note without losing them.

 9) Time. Time is of the essence of all of the provisions of this Note.

 10) Application of Payments. Any payments received hereunder shall be applied first, to any costs or fees owing hereunder; next, to any interest owing; and the balance, if any, to reduction of principal.

 11) Security. This Note is secured by a Deed of Trust covering property situated in King County, Washington, and shall be construed, enforced and otherwise governed by the laws of the State of Washington.

 12) Non-recourse. Maker shall have no liability for payment of this Note other than to have the Property and all other collateral under the Deed of Trust and other documents securing this Note, and the rents, income and proceeds from such Property and collateral, applied to satisfy the obligations hereunder.

 NOTICE: ORAL AGREEMENTS OR ORAL COMMITMENTS TO LOAN MONEY, EXTEND CREDIT, OR TO FORBEAR FROM ENFORCING REPAYMENT OF A DEBT, ARE NOT ENFORCEABLE UNDER WASHINGTON LAW.

 ___________________________________________, a ___________________ corporation

 By: ___________ Print Name: _____________ Title: __________________

 Exhibit D to Attachment A - Form of Deed of Trust (To be inserted)

 Exhibit E: Preliminary Title Report with Permitted Exceptions (To be inserted.)

 Exhibit F: Schematic Design, Summary Description, & Construction Plan (To be inserted.)

```
