

********

**Council Bill Number: 115503**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122044**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the South Lake Union Streetcar, authorizing the Director of the Seattle Department of Transportation to enter into an agreement to exchange real property owned by the City of Seattle in Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4, Block 106, D.T. Denny's 1st Addition to the City of Seattle, Washington, for land owned by City Investors VII, LLC in Lots 1, 2, 3, and 4, and 5, Block 3, Fairview Homestead Association for the Benefit of Mechanics and Laborers, Seattle, Washington, to give and accept deeds on behalf of the City to effectuate the transaction, and to accept and deposit funds in connection with the sale.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 27, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 5, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 5, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** City Investors property exchange

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 13, 2006
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, STREETCARS, SOUTH-LAKE-UNION

**Fiscal Note:**115503

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the South Lake Union Streetcar, authorizing the Director of the Seattle Department of Transportation to enter into an agreement to exchange real property owned by the City of Seattle in Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4, Block 106, D.T. Denny's 1st Addition to the City of Seattle, Washington, for land owned by City Investors VII, LLC in Lots 1, 2, 3, and 4, and 5, Block 3, Fairview Homestead Association for the Benefit of Mechanics and Laborers, Seattle, Washington, to give and accept deeds on behalf of the City to effectuate the transaction, and to accept and deposit funds in connection with the sale.

 WHEREAS, in Resolution 30610, the Seattle City Council affirmed its commitment to support the redevelopment of the South Lake Union area as the region's most competitive location for biotech and high-tech research and manufacturing; and

 WHEREAS, in Ordinance 121951, the Seattle City Council ordered the construction of a modern streetcar line serving downtown Seattle, Denny Triangle and South Lake Union, established Local Improvement District No. 6750, and ordered the carrying out of the proposed improvement; and

 WHEREAS, the preliminary design of the South Lake Union Streetcar project includes a maintenance facility on City-owned property located at the southwest corner of Fairview Avenue N. and Valley Street (legally described on Attachment 1). The South Lake Union Friends and Neighbors (SLUFAN) Community Council asked the City to identify an alternative location, because of urban design concerns about this location near South Lake Union Park; and

 WHEREAS, City Investors VII, LLC subsequently proposed a property exchange providing an alternative site at Fairview Avenue N. and Harrison Streets (legally described on Attachment 1) that offers improved compatibility with its urban setting, improved operations and easier construction; and

 WHEREAS, City Investors VII, LLC has agreed to provide additional consideration to the City of $1.8 Million to offset the cost of a spur track to the new location and the lower value of development rights at the alternative location, and has agreed to a no-cost right-of-way dedication of that portion of the City-owned property that will be necessary to complete the Mercer Corridor Project; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Director of Transportation ("Director") and recommended by the Mayor, the Director or her or his designee is hereby authorized to execute and deliver for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a Property Exchange Agreement substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as "Property Exchange Agreement" (Attachment 1), agreeing to exchange the City-owned real property described therein for property owned by City Investors VII, LLC upon the term and conditions set forth in that Agreement, to execute such additional documents as may be reasonably required to effectuate the transaction, and to accept and deposit in the Transportation Operating Fund all proceeds of the exchange, which shall be used exclusively to defray costs of implementing the South Lake Union Streetcar Project.

 Section 2. As requested by the Director of Transportation ("Director") and recommended by the Mayor, the Director or her or his designee is hereby authorized to execute and deliver on behalf of The City of Seattle, deeds of conveyance to the City property described in Attachment 1 and to accept and record on behalf of the City, deeds of conveyance from City Investors VII, LLC to convey and receive title to the real property on behalf of the City as described in the Property Exchange Agreement (Attachment 1).

 Section 3. Any acts made consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Property Exchange Agreement

 version #6a

 PROPERTY EXCHANGE AGREEMENT

 This Property Exchange Agreement ("Agreement") is made and entered into this ____ day of ___________, 2006, by and between The City of Seattle, a City of the first class of the State of Washington ("City") and City Investors VII, L.L.C., a Washington limited liability company ("City Investors").

 Recitals

 A. City owns certain real property in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, located at 1123 Valley Street and 613 and 713 Fairview Avenue and legally described in Exhibit A attached hereto (the "City Property"). The City Property presently consists of approximately 37,079 square feet of land, together with certain improvements.

 B. City Investors owns certain real property in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, located at 314 and 330 Fairview Avenue North and legally described in Exhibit B attached hereto (the "CI Property"). The CI Property consists of approximately 32,400 square feet of land, together with certain improvements.

 C. City desires to acquire the CI Property. City has agreed to transfer the City Property to City Investors in exchange for CI's transfer of the CI Property and a further cash payment to City as described herein.

 D. City is contemplating certain street right-of-way improvements on Fairview Avenue between Mercer and Valley Streets which will involve a required dedication of a portion of the City Property along Mercer and Fairview. Because this dedication will occur following the property exchange contemplated by this Agreement, the parties have agreed to provide for a post-closing reconveyance of the area to be dedicated from City Investors to City as described herein.

 In consideration of the mutual covenants and promises contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, City and City Investors agree as follows:

 1. Transfer of City Property; Reconveyance of ROW Parcels; Value.

 1.1 Transfer of City Property. City hereby agrees to transfer and convey to City Investors, and City Investors hereby agrees to acquire from City, the obligations of each of them subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the City Property, together with all rights, privileges and easements appertaining thereto, including without limitation all mineral, oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances thereon and thereunder, the improvements located on the City Property, all plans, surveys, environmental and engineering reports relating to the City Property, all development rights, air rights, water rights, permits, licenses and other rights appurtenant to or used in connection with the City Property.

 The parties agree and acknowledge that the term City Property as used herein shall include the entire 37,079 square foot parcel described in Exhibit A, including those portions of the City Property totaling approximately 3,931 square feet (the "ROW Parcels") as further described and depicted in attached Exhibit C which are planned to be dedicated to the City as part of the City's proposed right-of-way improvements on Fairview Avenue between Mercer and Valley (herein the "Mercer Corridor Project").

 1.2 Reconveyance of ROW Parcels. As noted above, the City is contemplating the Mercer Corridor Project. The parties have agreed that, upon written notice from the City that it is proceeding with the Mercer Corridor Project, City Investors shall reconvey and quitclaim the ROW Parcels to the City at no additional consideration to the City; provided, however, that the City shall be responsible for any and all closing costs on the reconveyance, including any title insurance City may desire. The parties affirm and acknowledge that the required reconveyance and quitclaim of the ROW Parcels has been taken into account by the parties in negotiating the transaction contemplated in this Agreement and is being done as an accommodation to the City in order to facilitate the herein transaction prior to the City's commencement of right-of-way acquisition for the Mercer Corridor Project. The parties further agree and acknowledge that in the event that City delivers written notice to City Investors that City does not intend to re-acquire the ROW Parcels (the "City Notice") or City fails to give written notice to City Investors that it is proceeding with the right-of-way dedication process for the Mercer Corridor Project on or before April 30, 2011, this reconveyance obligation shall cease and City Investors shall promptly pay to City the ROW Parcels Per Square Foot Purchase Price (as defined below) multiplied by the total square footage of the ROW Parcels as full and complete consideration for the ROW Parcels. The ROW Parcels Per Square Foot Purchase Price shall be an amount equal to One Hundred Sixty Dollars ($160.00), increased by five percent (5%) per annum on each anniversary of the closing date of this Agreement until the earlier of the City Notice date or April 30, 2011; provided, however, that in no event shall the ROW Parcels Per Square Foot Purchase Price exceed $204.27. The obligations of this Section 1.2 shall survive Closing. Notwithstanding anything to the foregoing contained in this Section 1.2 or any other provision of this Agreement, City Investors shall have the right prior to April 30, 2011, to occupy or lease any building or other improvements that are partly or wholly within the ROW Parcels so long as such occupancy or lease agreement provides for a termination clause permitting City Investors to terminate the agreement upon 12 months notice to occupant/tenant.

 1.3 Value. For purposes of this Agreement, the parties agree that the City Property has a value of Five Million Two Hundred Ninety-Nine and 00/100 Dollars ($5,299,000.00).

 2. Transfer of CI Property; Additional Consideration; Value.

 2.1 Transfer of CI Property. City Investors hereby agrees to transfer and convey to City, and City hereby agrees to acquire from City Investors, the obligations of each of them subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the CI Property, together with all rights, privileges and easements appertaining thereto, including without limitation all mineral, oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances thereon or thereunder, the improvements located on the CI Property, all plans, surveys, environmental and engineering reports relating to the CI Property, all development rights, air rights, water rights, permits, licenses and other rights appurtenant to or used in connection with the CI Property.

 2.2 Additional Consideration. Also at Closing, and in addition to the exchange of the CI Property to City in exchange for the City Property, City Investors shall also pay to City in cash or other immediately available funds the amount of One Million Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,800,000.00) (the "Additional Consideration").

 2.3 Value. For purposes of this Agreement, the parties agree that the CI Property has a value of Three Million Four Hundred Ninety-Nine and 00/100 Dollars ($3, 499,000.00).

 3. Escrow. Chicago Title Insurance Company ("Escrow Agent" in its capacity as escrow agent, and "Title Company" in its capacity as title insurer) has been designated as Escrow Agent hereunder by mutual agreement of City and City Investors. Upon execution of this Agreement by the last of City and City Investors (such date herein the "Date of this Agreement"), Escrow Agent shall open a closing escrow in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

 4. Conveyance. At Closing, City Investors shall convey the CI Property to City by execution and delivery of a bargain and sale deed in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D subject only to the CI Property Permitted Exceptions (defined below). At Closing, City shall convey the City Property to City Investors by execution and delivery of a bargain and sale deed in the form attached hereto as Exhibit E, subject only to the City Property Permitted Exceptions (defined below).

 5. Title Matters.

 5.1 CI Property. City has obtained, reviewed and approved a commitment for title insurance issued by Title Company with respect to the CI Property, Order No. 1198857 dated as of December 27, 2005 at 8:00a.m. City agrees to accept title to the CI Property subject to the following exceptions (collectively, the "CI Property Permitted Exceptions"):

 (a) Nondelinquent general taxes and assessments for the year in which Closing occurs, and for subsequent years;

 (b) The exceptions listed in Exhibit F attached hereto; and

 (c) Exceptions arising by or through City.

 City Investors shall cause, at City Investors' sole expense, all other exceptions to title (including all mortgages, deeds of trust, mechanic's liens and judgment liens) to be fully released, satisfied and discharged of record on or before Closing.

 5.2 City Property. City Investors has obtained, reviewed and approved a commitment for title insurance issued by Title Company with respect to the City Property, Order No. 1198856 dated as of December 27, 2005 at 8:00a.m. City Investors agrees to accept title to the City Property subject to the following exceptions (collectively, the "City Property Permitted Exceptions"):

 (a) Nondelinquent general taxes and assessments for the year in which Closing occurs, and for subsequent years;

 (b) The exceptions listed in Exhibit G attached hereto; and

 (c) Exceptions arising by or through City Investors.

 City shall cause, at City's sole expense, all other exceptions to title (including all mortgages, deeds of trust, mechanic's liens and judgment liens) to be fully released, satisfied and discharged of record on or before Closing.

 5.3 Title Insurance.

 (a) CI Property City Investors shall cause Title Company to deliver to City at Closing an owner's standard coverage policy of title insurance issued by Title Company in the amount of $3,499,000.00 and dated the date of Closing, insuring City's title subject to no exceptions other than the standard preprinted exceptions and the CI Property Permitted Exceptions (the "CI Property Title Policy"). City Investors agrees to provide such affidavits and indemnifications as the Title Company may require to cause Title Company to remove the standard preprinted exceptions for parties in possession and mechanic's liens. If City desires extended coverage, City shall be responsible for any surveys required by Title Company and the additional premium for extended coverage.

 (b) City Property. City shall cause Title Company to deliver to City Investors at Closing an owner's standard coverage policy of title insurance issued by Title Company in the amount of $5,299,000.00 and dated the date of Closing, insuring City Investors' title subject to no exceptions other than the standard preprinted exceptions and the City Property Permitted Exceptions (the "City Property Title Policy"). City agrees to provide such affidavits and indemnifications as the Title Company may require to cause Title Company to remove the standard preprinted exceptions for parties in possession and mechanic's liens. If City Investors desires extended coverage, City Investors shall be responsible for any surveys required by the Title Company and the additional premium for extended coverage.

 6. Conditions Precedent to Closing.

 6.1 City Investors' Conditions. City Investors' obligations under this Agreement are expressly conditioned upon, and subject to satisfaction of, the following conditions precedent:

 (a) Due Diligence. On or before April 1, 2006, City Investors shall have notified City in writing that it is satisfied, in its sole discretion, with: (i) the results of its inspection of the City Property pursuant to that certain Access and Property Agreement between the parties dated as of December 7, 2005 (the "Access Agreement"); and (ii) the result of its review of all plans, surveys, environmental and engineering and other reports and studies in the possession of City and relating to the Property, copies of which shall have been delivered by City to City Investors within five (5) business days of mutual execution of this Agreement.

 (b) Performance by City. City shall have timely performed all obligations required by this Agreement to be performed by City, including but not limited to any and all actions necessary to enable it to transfer the City Property to City Investors and to acquire the CI Property as described herein;

 (c) Title Policy. Title Company shall be ready, willing and able to issue the City Property Title Policy;

 (d) Representations and Warranties True. The representations and warranties of City contained herein shall be true and correct in all material respects.

 The conditions set forth in Section 6.1(a) through (d) above are intended solely for the benefit of City Investors. If any of the foregoing conditions are not satisfied as of the Closing Date, City Investors shall have the right in its sole election either to waive the conditions in question and proceed with closing, or, in the alternative, to terminate this Agreement.

 6.2 City's Conditions. City's obligations under this Agreement are expressly condition on, and subject to the satisfaction of, the following conditions precedent:

 (a) Authorization. The City of Seattle City Council shall have enacted an ordinance authorizing the City to enter into this Agreement and the same shall have been passed into law.

 (b) Due Diligence. On or before April 1, 2006, City shall have notified City Investors in writing that it is satisfied, in its sole discretion, with: (i) the results of its inspection of the CI Property pursuant to the Access Agreement; and (ii) the results of its review of all plans, surveys, environmental and engineering and other reports and studies in the possession of City Investors and relating to the CI Property, copies of which shall have been delivered by City Investors to City within five (5) business days of mutual execution of this Agreement.

 (c) Performance by City Investors. City Investors shall have timely performed all obligations required by this Agreement to be performed by City Investors, including but not limited to any and all actions necessary to enable it to transfer the CI Property to City and to acquire the City Property as described herein;

 (d) Title Policy. Title Company shall be ready, willing and able to issue the CI Property Title Policy;

 (e) Representations and Warranties True. The representations and warranties of City Investors contained herein shall be true and correct in all material respects.

 The conditions set forth in Section 6.2(a) through (e) above are intended solely for the benefit of City. If any of the foregoing conditions are not satisfied as of the Closing Date, City shall have the right in its sole election either to waive the condition in question and proceed with Closing or, in the alternative, to terminate this Agreement.

 7. Closing And Escrow.

 7.1 Closing. The Closing hereunder (the "Closing" or the "Closing Date") shall be held and delivery of all items to be made at the Closing under the terms of this Agreement shall be made at the offices of the Escrow Agent on or before April 10, 2006. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that one party is prepared to close this transaction (the "performing party") pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, but the other party has not fully performed its obligations hereunder and/or deposited all documents with Escrow Agent necessary for Closing to timely occur (the "nonperforming party") , then the performing party may notify the nonperforming party that the performing party extends the Closing Date to such date or dates as the performing party may elect but not more than thirty (30) days to provide nonperforming party with the additional time necessary for nonperforming party to fully perform its obligations hereunder. The nonperforming party's failure to fully perform by such extended Closing Date(s) shall constitute a default under this Agreement.

 7.2 Delivery by City. On or prior to the Closing Date, City shall deposit with Escrow Agent, the following:

 (a) The duly executed and acknowledged bargain and sale deed for the City Property ready for recordation on the Closing Date together with a duly executed real estate excise tax affidavit;

 (b) A certificate of non-foreign status executed by City;

 (c) Any reconveyance documents required to eliminate of record any existing deeds of trust and other security documents which are a lien on the City Property and any customary affidavits or certifications required by Title Company to issue the City Property Title Policy;

 (d) A certificate executed by City stating that the representations and warranties in Section 8.1 are true and correct in all material respects as of the Closing Date.

 7.3 Delivery by City Investors. On or prior to the Closing Date, City Investors shall deposit with Escrow Agent the following:

 (a) The duly executed and acknowledged bargain and sale deed for the CI Property ready for recordation on the Closing Date, together with a duly executed real estate excise tax affidavit.

 (b) A certificate of non-foreign status executed by City Investors;

 (c) Any reconveyance documents required to eliminate of record any existing deeds of trust or other security documents which are a lien on the CI Property and any customary affidavits or certifications required by Title Company to issue the CI Property Title Policy;

 (d) A certificate executed by City Investors stating that the representations and warranties in Section 8.2 are true and correct as of the Closing Date; and

 (e) The Additional Consideration.

 7.4 Title Policy; Other Instruments. City shall cause Title Company to issue the CI Property Title Policy at Closing or as soon thereafter as practicable and City Investors shall cause Title Company to issue the CI Property Title Policy at Closing or as soon thereafter as is practicable. City and City Investors shall each deposit such other instruments as are reasonably required by Escrow Agent or otherwise required to close the escrow and consummate the exchange in accordance with the terms hereof.

 7.5 Pro-rations. All revenues and all expenses of the City Property and the CI Property, including but not limited to, real property taxes, assessments, drainage district service charges, water, sewer and utility charges, and other expenses normal to the operation and maintenance of such property, but excluding insurance premiums, shall be prorated as of 12:01 a.m. on the Closing Date. Property tax pro-rations will be on the basis of taxes paid or payable in the year of Closing.

 7.6 Closing Costs and Expenses. City and City Investors shall each pay their own attorneys fees and expenses to perform their obligations hereunder in addition to the following:

 (a) City shall pay:

 (i) The owner's standard coverage portion of the premium for the City Property Title Policy;

 (ii) All real estate excise taxes, and other transfer taxes, if any, applicable to the transfer of the City Property;

 (iii) One-half (1/2) of the fees for the Escrow Agent; and

 (iv) Recording costs for the bargain and sale deed for the City Property.

 (b) City Investors shall pay:

 (i) The owner's standard coverage portion of the premium for the CI Property Title Policy;

 (ii) All real estate excise taxes, and other transfer taxes applicable to the transfer of the CI Property.

 (iii) One-half (1/2) of the fees for the Escrow Agent; and

 (iv) Recording costs for the bargain and sale deed for the CI Property.

 7.7 Closing Statements. The pro-rations shall be made on the basis of a written closing statement submitted by Escrow Agent to City and City Investors prior to the Closing Date and approved by City and City Investors, which approval shall not unreasonably be withheld. In the event any pro-rations or apportionments made hereunder shall prove to be incorrect for any reason, then any party shall be entitled to an adjustment to correct the same. Any item which cannot be prorated because of the unavailability of information shall be tentatively prorated on the basis of the best data then available and re-prorated between City and City Investors when the information is available. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any adjustments or re-prorations shall be made, if at all, within one hundred eighty (180) days after the Closing Date.

 8. Representations and Warranties. City and City Investors make the following representations and warranties:

 8.1 City's Representations. City represents and warrants to City Investors as of the Date of this Agreement:

 (a) Litigation. There is no claim, litigation, or proceeding pending against City, or to City's current actual knowledge threatened against City, which relate to the City Property or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

 (b) Compliance. To City's current actual knowledge all permits, licenses and other governmental authorizations required to own the City Property have been obtained, are in full force and effect, and are free from violation or claim of violation.

 (c) No Prior Options or Assignments. City is under no obligation to transfer the City Property or any portion thereof to any party other than City Investors.

 (d) Existing Agreements. There are no contracts, agreements or understandings (whether written or oral) relating to the City Property which will be binding on City Investors after Closing except for the City Property Permitted Exceptions. As of the Closing Date, City will have terminated at its expense all property management and leasing and other contracts with respect to the City Property.

 (e) Environmental Compliance. City has not caused or permitted the City Property to be used to generate, manufacture, refine, transport, treat, store, handle, dispose, transfer, produce or process Hazardous Substances. City has no current actual knowledge of any Hazardous Substances on or adjacent to of the City Property, except as described in Exhibit H hereto ("City's Disclosure Exhibit"). For the purposes hereof, "Hazardous Substances" shall mean asbestos (whether or not friable), petroleum and petroleum derivatives and products, and any substance, chemical, waste or other material which is listed, defined or otherwise identified as "hazardous" or "toxic" under any federal, state or local ordinance or law or any administrative agency rule or determination, except for cleaning solvents, paints and similar materials used in the ordinary course of business in compliance with applicable law. To City's current actual knowledge, there are no tanks on or under the City Property.

 (f) Authority. This Agreement and all documents to be executed by City at Closing have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by City and are binding on and enforceable against City in accordance with their terms. City has obtained all authorizations or approvals necessary in order for City to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement.

 (g) City's Current Actual Knowledge. The representations and warranties herein which are based upon the current actual knowledge of City are based upon the current actual knowledge of Larry Huggins, Seattle Department of Transportation, without any imputation of knowledge as a result of agency or constructive knowledge principles, and without any obligation on City's part to undertake any investigation or take any affirmative action to acquire any knowledge.

 8.2 City Investors' Representations and Warranties. City Investors represents and warrants to City as of the Closing Date as follows:

 (a) Litigation. There is no claim, litigation, or proceeding pending against City Investors, or to City Investors' current actual knowledge threatened against City Investors, which relate to the CI Property or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

 (b) Compliance. To City Investors' current actual knowledge all permits, licenses and other governmental authorizations required to own the CI Property have been obtained, are in full force and effect, and are free from violation or claim of violation.

 (c) No Prior Options or Assignments. City Investors is under no obligation to transfer the CI Property or any portion thereof to any party other than City.

 (d) Existing Agreements. There are no contracts, agreements or understandings (whether written or oral) relating to the CI Property which will be binding on City after Closing except for the CI Property Permitted Exceptions. As of the Closing Date, City Investors will have terminated at its expense all property management and leasing and other contracts with respect to the CI Property.

 (e) Environmental Compliance. City Investors has not caused or permitted the CI Property to be used to generate, manufacture, refine, transport, treat, store, handle, dispose, transfer, produce or process Hazardous Substances. City Investors has no current actual knowledge of any Hazardous Substances on or adjacent to of the CI Property, except as described in Exhibit I hereto ("CI Disclosure Exhibit"). For the purposes hereof, "Hazardous Substances" shall mean asbestos (whether or not friable), petroleum and petroleum derivatives and products, and any substance, chemical, waste or other material which is listed, defined or otherwise identified as "hazardous" or "toxic" under any federal, state or local ordinance or law or any administrative agency rule or determination, except for cleaning solvents, paints and similar materials used in the ordinary course of business in compliance with applicable law. To City Investors' current actual knowledge, there are no tanks on or under the CI Property.

 (f) Authority. This Agreement and all documents to be executed by City Investors at Closing have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by City Investors and are binding on and enforceable against City Investors in accordance with their terms. City Investors has obtained all authorizations or approvals necessary in order for City Investors to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement.

 (g) City Investors' Current Actual Knowledge. The representations and warranties herein which are based upon the current actual knowledge of City Investors are based upon the current actual knowledge of Ada M. Healey, without any imputation of knowledge as a result of agency or constructive knowledge principles, and without any obligation on City Investors' part to undertake any investigation or take any affirmative action to acquire any knowledge.

 9. Loss By Fire Or Other Casualty: Condemnation.

 (a) In the event that all or any portion of the City Property is damaged or destroyed by any casualty or is the subject of a taking or condemnation under the provisions of eminent domain law after the Date of this Agreement but prior to the Closing Date, City Investors may terminate this Agreement. If City Investors does not elect to terminate this Agreement, then City shall be entitled to collect at Closing (or receive a credit at Closing for) all proceeds from any condemnation or from any insurance policies insuring the City Property from damage or destruction and all other terms and conditions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

 (b) In the event that all or any portion of the CI Property is damaged or destroyed by any casualty or is the subject of a taking or condemnation under the provisions of eminent domain law after the Date of this Agreement but prior to the Closing Date, City may terminate this Agreement. If City does not elect to terminate this Agreement, then City shall be entitled to collect at Closing (or receive a credit at Closing for) all proceeds from any condemnation or from any insurance policies insuring the CI Property from damage or destruction and all other terms and conditions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

 10. Possession. Possession of the City Property shall be delivered to City Investors on the Closing Date, free and clear of parties in possession. Possession of the CI Property shall be delivered to City on the Closing Date, free and clear of parties in possession.

 11. Default; Remedies.

 11.1 Default by City Investors. If City Investors fails, without legal excuse, to complete the property exchange in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or otherwise defaults hereunder, City may elect to: (a) terminate this Agreement; or (b) specifically enforce this Agreement; or (c) in the case of a default in connection with any representation or warranty by City Investors pursuant to 8.2, sue for actual damages.

 11.2 Default by City. If City fails, without legal excuse, to complete the property exchange in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or otherwise defaults hereunder, City Investors may elect to pursue any one or more of the following remedies: (a) terminate this Agreement; or (b) specifically enforce this Agreement; or (c) in the case of a default in connection with any representation or warranty by City pursuant to 8.1, sue for actual damages.

 11.3 Attorneys' Fees. In the event either party brings an action or any other proceeding against the other party to enforce or interpret any of the terms, covenants or conditions hereof, the substantially prevailing party in any such action or proceeding shall be paid all costs and reasonable attorneys' fees by the other party in such amounts as shall be set by the court, at trial and on appeal.

 12. Miscellaneous.

 12.1 Brokers and Finders. Each party represents to the other that no broker or finder has been involved in this transaction. In the event of a claim for broker's fee, finder's fee, commission or other similar compensation in connection with this Agreement, City, if such claim is based upon any agreement alleged to have been made by City, hereby agrees to indemnify City Investors against any and all damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) which City Investors may sustain or incur by reason of such claim. City Investors, if such claim is based upon any agreement alleged to have been made by City Investors, hereby agrees to indemnify City against any and all damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) which City may sustain or incur by reason of such claim. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the provisions of this Section 12.1 shall survive the termination of this Agreement or the Closing.

 12.2 Notices. All notices, demands, requests, consents and approvals which may, or are required to, be given by any party to any other party hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally, sent by a nationally recognized overnight delivery service, electronically transmitted or if mailed or deposited in the United States mail and sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid to:

 CITY at: Seattle Department of Transportation

 P.O. Box 34996

 Seattle, WA 98124-4996

 Attention: Real Property Manager

 Telephone No. (206) 684-5000

 Facsimile No. (206) 684-3238

 City Investors at: City Investors VII, L.L.C.

 c/o Vulcan Inc.

 505 Union Station

 505 Fifth Avenue South, Suite 900

 Seattle, WA 98104

 Attention: Vice President of Real Estate

 Telephone No. (206) 342-2000

 Facsimile No. (206) 342-3000

 or to such other addresses as either party hereto may from time to time designate in writing and deliver in a like manner. All notices shall be deemed complete upon actual receipt or refusal to accept delivery.

 12.3 Amendment, Waiver. No modification, termination or amendment of this Agreement may be made except by written agreement. No failure by City Investors or City to insist upon the strict performance of any covenant, agreement, or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy shall constitute a wavier of any such breach or any other covenant, agreement, term or condition. No waiver shall affect or alter this Agreement, and each and every covenant, agreement, term and condition of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect with respect to any other then existing or subsequent breach thereof. All the terms, provisions, and conditions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by City Investors' or City's permitted successors and assigns.

 12.4 Survival. All provisions of this Agreement which involve obligations, duties or rights to be performed after the Closing Date or the recording of the bargain and sale deeds, and all representations, warranties and indemnifications made in or to be made pursuant to this Agreement shall survive the Closing Date and/or the recording of the bargain and sale deeds.

 12.5 Captions. The captions of this Agreement are for convenience and reference only and in no way define, limit or describe the scope or intent of this Agreement.

 12.6 Merger of Prior Agreements. This Agreement constitutes the final and complete agreement between the parties with respect to the exchange and transfer of the City Property and the CI Property and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, letters of intent and understandings between the parties hereto relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.

 12.7 Governing Law; Time. This Agreement and the rights of the parties hereto shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Washington. "Day" as used herein means a calendar day and "business day" means any day on which commercial banks are generally open for business. Any period of time which would otherwise end on a non-business day shall be extended to the next following business day. Time is of the essence of this Agreement.

 12.8 Severability. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision hereof, and this Agreement shall be construed as if such provisions had not been contained herein.

 12.9 Counterparts. This Agreement and the documents to be delivered hereunder may be executed in any number of counterparts, and each such counterpart hereof shall be deemed to be an original instrument, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one agreement..

 12.10 Tax Deferred Exchange. At either party's request, the other party shall cooperate with the requesting party's election to structure the transaction as part of a like-kind exchange pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code, subject to the terms of this Section. Under no circumstances shall any such exchange: (a) delay, prevent or constitute a condition to Closing under this Agreement; (b) require the cooperating party to take title to any other property; nor (c) cause, create or result in the assumption by the cooperating party of greater obligations, liabilities or responsibilities than those expressly provided for such party elsewhere in this Agreement. If and to the extent the requesting party requests the cooperating party to take any additional actions in connection with such exchange, the requesting party agrees to reimburse the cooperating party upon request for any reasonable additional costs or expenses, including reasonable out-of-pocket expenses and attorneys' fees, incurred by the cooperating party in connection with such request. No representation or warranty of any kind or nature will be made by the cooperating party or any of its agents, attorneys or employees that any such exchange will be qualified as a tax deferred exchange under Section 1031. The requesting party shall rely solely upon its own tax advisors, experts and counsel in connection with any such exchange transaction.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

 CITY INVESTORS: CITY INVESTORS VII L.L.C., a Washington limited liability company

 By: City Investors LLC, a Washington limited liability company

 By:

 Ada M. Healey

 Its: Vice President

 CITY: THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:

 Its: _________________________________

 Exhibits:

 Exhibit A Legal Description of the City Property

 Exhibit B Legal Description of the CI Property

 Exhibit C Description and Depiction of ROW Parcels

 Exhibit D Form of Bargain and Sale Deed From City

 Exhibit E Form of Bargain and Sale Deed From City Investors

 Exhibit F CI Property Permitted Exceptions

 Exhibit G City Property Permitted Exceptions

 Exhibit H City Disclosure Exhibit

 Exhibit I City Investors' Disclosure Exhibit

 Exhibit A

 Legal Description of the City Property

 Parcel A:

 Lot 1, Block 106, D.T. Denny's First Addition to North Seattle according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 79, in King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT the East 21 feet thereof condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 204496, for Fairview Avenue North, as provided for by Ordinance number 51975 of the City of Seattle.

 SUBJECT TO: Right to make necessary slopes for cuts or fills upon property herein described as condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 204496.

 Parcel B:

 Lot 2, Block 106, D.T. Denny's First Addition to North Seattle, according the Plat thereof, recorded in Volume 1 Plats, page 79, in King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT the East 21 feet thereof condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 204496, for Fairview Avenue, as provided for by Ordinance Number 51975 of the City of Seattle.

 SUBJECT TO: Right to make necessary slopes for cuts or fills upon property herein described as condemned in County Superior Court Cause Number 204496.

 Parcel C:

 Lot 3 and 4, Block 106, D.T. Denny's first Addition to North Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 Plats, page 79, in King County , Washington;

 EXCEPT the East 21 feet thereof condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 204496, for Fairview Avenue North, as provided for by Ordinance Number 51975 of the City of Seattle.

 SUBJECT TO: Right to make necessary slopes for cuts or fills upon property herein de3scribed as condemned in County Superior Court Cause Number 204496.

 Exhibit B

 Legal Description of City Investor's Property

 Parcel A:

 Lots 1 and 2, Block 3, Fairview Homestead Association for the Benefit of Mechanics and Laborers, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page(s) 119, in King County, Washington .

 Parcel B:

 Lot 3, Block 3, Fairview Homestead Association for the Benefit of Mechanics and Laborers, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page(s) 119, in King County, Washington.

 Parcel C:

 The North half of Lot 5 and all of Lot 4; all in Block 3, Fairview Homestead Association for the Benefit of Mechanics and Laborers, according the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page(s) 119, in King County, Washington.

 Exhibit C

 Description and Depiction of ROW Parcels [ Exhibit C (Depiction of ROW Parcels) ](/~ordpics/115503a1.gif) Exhibit D

 Form of Bargain and Sale Deed from City of Seattle

 WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO

 Name: Mr. Clint Chase

 City Investors VII, L.L.C.

 Address: 500 5th Avenue S - Suite 900

 Seattle, WA 98104

 BARGAIN AND SALE DEED

 THE GRANTOR, THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington Municipality, FOR AND IN CONSIDERATION OF ************************************************** DOLLARS ($*************), in hand paid, bargains, sells, conveys and confirms to the GRANTEE, CITY INVESTORS VII, L.L.C., a Washington limited liability company ("City Investors") the following described real estate:

 ********************************************************************* ***************************************************************

 Abbreviated Legal: Lots 1-4, Block 106, D.T. Denny's First Addition to North Seattle, Volume 1, Page 79.

 Tax Account Number: 198320-1475-01, 198320-0480-04, and 198320-0485- 09.

 DATED:

 Grantor:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a

 Washington Municipality,

 By:

 Name:

 Title:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON

 COUNTY OF KING

 ss.

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _________________________ is/are the person(s) who appeared before me, and said person(s) acknowledged that he/she/they signed this instrument, on oath stating authorization to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _________________________ of the City of Seattle, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated this _________________________ day of _________________________, 2006.

 (Signature of Notary)

 (Legibly Print or Stamp Name of Notary)

 Notary public in and for the state of Washington, residing at

 My appointment expires

 Exhibit E

 Form of Bargain and Sale Deed from City Investors VII, L.L.C.

 WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO

 Name: Larry Huggins

 Seattle Department of Transportation

 SMT 39-00

 P.O. Box 34996-

 Seattle, WA 98124-4996

 BARGAIN AND SALE DEED

 THE GRANTOR, CITY INVESTORS VII, L.L.C., a Washington limited liability company ("City Investors"), for and in consideration of ****************************************** DOLLARS ($*****************), In hand paid, grants, bargains, sells, conveys and confirms to the GRANTEE, THE CITY OF SEATTLE, Washington, the following described real estate:

 ********************************************************************* ***************************************************************

 Abbreviated Legal: Lots 1-4 and the North 1/2 of Lot 5, Block 3, Fairview Homestead Association for the benefit of Mechanics and Laborers, Volume 1, page 119.

 Tax Account Number: 249740-0073-06, 246740-0065-06, and 246740-0080- 07.

 Dated:

 Grantor:

 CITY INVESTORS VII, LLC,

 By:

 Name:

 Title:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON

 COUNTY OF KING

 ss.

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _________________________ is/are the person(s) who appeared before me, and said person(s) acknowledged that he/she/they signed this instrument, on oath stating authorization to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _________________________ of the City of Seattle, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated this _________________________ day of _________________________, 2006.

 (Signature of Notary)

 (Legibly Print or Stamp Name of Notary)

 Notary public in and for the state of Washington, residing at

 My appointment expires

 Exhibit F

 City Investors Property Permitted Exceptions

 Exhibit G

 City of Seattle Permitted Exceptions

 Exhibit H

 City of Seattle Disclosure Document

 City has not caused or permitted the City Property to be used to generate, manufacture, refine, transport, treat, store, handle, dispose, transfer, produce or process Hazardous Substances. City has no current actual knowledge of any Hazardous Substances on or adjacent to of the City Property.

 Larry Huggins

 Seattle Department of Transportation

 Real Property Manager

 Exhibit I

 City Investor's Disclosure Document

 City Investors has not caused or permitted the CI Property to be used to generate, manufacture, refine, transport, treat, store, handle, dispose, transfer, produce or process Hazardous Substances. City Investors has no current actual knowledge of any Hazardous Substances on or adjacent to the CI Property with the exception of:

```
