

********

**Council Bill Number: 115543**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122125**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 23.47.040 and the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code, to rezone properties to establish permanent pedestrian-designated zones in the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village by adding a Pedestrian 2 designation and by adding 15th Ave. NW and NW 85th St. to the list of principal pedestrian streets, and to amend the ordinance introduced as CB 115513.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 30, 2006
   
**Vote:** 6-3 (No: Drago, Godden, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 12, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 12, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 10, 2006
   
**Committee:** Urban Development and Planning
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** REZONES, CROWN-HILL, PEDESTRIANS

**Fiscal Note:**115543

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 23.47.040 and the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code, to rezone properties to establish permanent pedestrian-designated zones in the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village by adding a Pedestrian 2 designation and by adding 15th Ave. NW and NW 85th St. to the list of principal pedestrian streets, and to amend the ordinance introduced as CB 115513.

 WHEREAS, City Council Ordinance 121789, adopted April 25, 2005, established an interim Pedestrian District 2 designation in Crown Hill to prohibit uses incompatible with transit-oriented and pedestrian-oriented development within the Neighborhood Commercial zone located in the vicinity of the proposed Seattle Monorail Project station at 15th Avenue Northwest and Northwest 85th Street (Crown Hill/85th Street Station); and

 WHEREAS, the Ordinance introduced as CB 115513, adopted March 27, 2006, extended the interim regulations adopted in Ordinance 121789 for six months; and

 WHEREAS, if this legislation is passed rezoning the properties, the interim regulations may not be needed for the entire six months; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle's Comprehensive Plan includes goals and policies related to a defined, vital, accessible mixed use core with residential and commercial activity in the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village to which a pedestrian-designated zone would contribute; and

 WHEREAS, the proposed Land Use Code amendments and rezones established by this ordinance are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 2 of the ordinance introduced as CB 115513 is amended as follows:

 The interim zoning adopted by Ordinance 121789 is extended until and shall expire on the earlier of the following: 1) the effective date of this ordinance, or 2)~~for six months and shall expire on~~ October 1, 2006.

 Section 2. The Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is amended to rezone certain properties located on Plat 2E, page 37; Plat 3W, page 38; Plat 230E, page 23; and Plat 231 W, page 24 of the Official Land Use Map, from NC3-40 and NC2-40 to NC3-40/ P2 and NC2-40/P2, as shown in Exhibit A attached to this ordinance.

 Section 3. Subsection C of Section 23.47.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended (other than by the interim amendment made by Ordinance 121789) by Ordinance 121760, is amended as follows:

 23.47.040 General provisions for pedestrian-designated zones.

 ***

 C. For purposes of this subchapter, the following streets are principal pedestrian streets when located within a pedestrian- designated zone:

 10th Avenue;

 11th Avenue;

 12th Avenue;

 15th Avenue East;

15th Avenue Northwest;

 22nd Avenue Northwest;

 23rd Avenue;

 24th Avenue Northwest;

 25th Avenue Northeast;

 Beacon Avenue South;

 Boren Avenue;

 Boylston Avenue;

 Broadway;

 Broadway East;

 California Avenue Southwest;

 East Greenlake Drive North;

 East Madison Street;

 East Olive Way;

 East Pike Street;

 East Union Street;

 First Avenue North;

 Fremont Avenue North;

 Fremont Place North;

 Greenwood Avenue North;

 Lake City Way Northeast;

 Madison Street;

 Martin Luther King Jr. Way South;

 Mercer Street;

 North 85th Street;

 North 45th Street;

 Northeast 43rd Street

 Northeast 45th Street;

 Northwest Market Street;

Northwest 85th Street;

Queen Anne Avenue North;

 Rainier Avenue South;

 Roosevelt Way Northeast;

 Roy Street;

 South Alaska Street;

 South Henderson Street;

 South Lander Street;

 South McClellan Street;

 South Othello Street;

 Southwest Alaska Street;

 Summit Avenue;

 Terry Avenue;

 University Way Northeast;

 Wallingford Avenue North; and

 Woodlawn Avenue Northeast.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but not if approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by the Municipal Code Section 1.04.020

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 v.2.doc April 7, 2006 [Exhibit A: Crown Hill Rezone](/~ordpics/115543.gif)

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 ANALYSIS AND DECISION OF THE DIRECTOR

 OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION AND LAND USE

 Applicant Name: Department of Planning & Development

 Location of Proposal: The central portion of the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village, at and around the intersection of 15th Avenue NW and NW 85th Street.

 SUMMARY OF PROPOSED ACTION

 The proposed non-project land use action is to rezone of a portion of the Crown Hill Hub Urban Village to permanently apply a pedestrian designation.

 The following approval is required:

 SEPA - Environmental Determination - Chapter 25.05, Seattle Municipal Code.

 SEPA DETERMINATION: [ ] Exempt [X] DNS [ ] MDNS [ ] EIS

 [ ] DNS with conditions

 [ ] DNS involving non-exempt grading, or demolition, or involving another agency with jurisdiction.

 BACKGROUND DATA

 Site Description

 The Department of Planning and Development (DPD) is proposing rezoning to permanently establish pedestrian designated zones in the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village. The area analyzed includes Neighborhood Commercial 2 and 3 (NC2 and NC3) zoned property along 15th Avenue NW from NW 87th Street to NW 80th Street and along NW 85th Street from 15th Avenue NW and 14th Avenue NW. The proposal is to apply a P2 Pedestrian designation in Crown Hill's business district at and around the intersection of 15th Avenue NW and NW 85th Street, as shown in the map below. To accommodate potential boundary modifications by the Seattle City Council, the area analyzed in this SEPA determination and associated checklist is broader than that encompassed by the proposal.

 Zoning History and Development in the Vicinity

 In 1986, the City designated 15th Avenue NW between NW 87th and NW 80th Streets, and NW 85th Street between 14th Avenue NW and the alley to the west of 15th Avenue NW as Neighborhood Commercial with a 40 foot height limit (NC2-40 and NC3-40). The intent was to encourage a mix of uses and to maintain and enliven the street-level commercial environment. Neighborhood Commercial areas along 15th Avenue NW and NW 85th Street feature relatively uninterrupted commercial street frontage and uses. The uses and scale of development are diverse along the corridor.

 In 2005, the City designated a P2 Pedestrian designation at the intersection of 15th Avenue NW and NW 85th Street as an emergency measure based on the anticipated development of a monorail station in this area.

 Proposal Description

 Current and proposed zoning classifications in the area are shown on the map below. The proposal would result in a smaller P2 designated area than was adopted by the City in 2005. The proposed configuration of the pedestrian area would be achieved by rezoning properties along 15th Avenue NW to remove the pedestrian designation and to add the pedestrian designation to properties along NW 85th Street (see the rezone map attached at the end of this report).

 The recommended P2 Pedestrian designation will require future development to be more pedestrian-oriented than under existing zoning. This will help establish a strong pedestrian-oriented retail core as the area redevelops over time. The Pedestrian designation requires a range of pedestrian-oriented uses at street level and also prohibits certain auto-oriented uses. The P2 designation would require that approximately 80 percent of the street frontage of new buildings to be occupied by uses in the retail, customer service, restaurant, entertainment, or library categories. These required uses will also have to be set back no more than 10 feet from the sidewalk and will have to occupy at least the first 10 feet above the sidewalk grade. In addition, the P2 designation includes a waiver for the first 5,000 square feet of each business in retail and service uses (except eating and drinking establishments), customer service offices, and entertainment uses (except motion picture theaters); it also applies to the first 150 seats of motion picture theaters. The waiver is unchanged for eating and drinking establishments. Finally, parking must be located behind, beside or below the structure and access to parking is prohibited from a designated principal pedestrian street.

 Existing structures located away from the street, even those with drive-in windows, could continue to operate as nonconforming uses or structures.

 Although the proposal is for a small, concentrated P2 designation around the intersections of Mary and 15th Avenues NW and NW 85th Street, the SEPA review has considered all properties zoned Neighborhood Commercial 2 or 3. The smaller P2 designation is the focus of this proposal because it results in fewer non-conforming properties. It also addresses the Crown Hill/Ballard Neighborhood Plan goals that have been adopted by Seattle's Comprehensive Plan and call for a more pedestrian-oriented business district, including CH/B-P9: "Preserve the function of 15th Avenue NW as a principal arterial and a major truck street, but strive to overcome the street as a barrier that isolates the neighborhood areas to the east and west from each other and to improve its contribution to the visual character of Crown Hill and Ballard."

 Public Comments

 Copies of the Crown Hill Director's Report and Rezone Analysis, and the proposed legislation, are currently available for public review and comment. A public hearing on the proposed legislation will be scheduled before the Seattle City Council Urban Development and Planning Committee in the 1st Quarter of 2006. Public testimony will be taken at the hearing and comments can be submitted in writing.

 SEPA DETERMINATION

 The initial disclosure of the potential impacts from this action was made in the environmental checklist. The information in the checklist, the Director's Report and Rezone Analysis for the Crown Hill P2 Pedestrian Designation and the experience of the lead agency with review of similar projects form the basis of this analysis and decision.

 This proposal is the adoption of legislation and is defined as a non- project action. This action is not specifically addressed as a Categorical Exemption (SMC 25.05.800), therefore it must be analyzed for probable significant adverse environmental impacts. A threshold determination is required for any proposal that meets the definition of action and is not categorically exempt.

 Short-term Impacts

 As a non-project action, the proposal will not have any short-term impact on the environment because construction is not a direct result of this action.

 Long-term Impacts

 The proposal would modify permitted and prohibited uses in the analysis area within the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village centered at the four-corners along NW 85th Street between 15th Avenue NW and Mary Avenue NW. Ultimate impacts would only be realized through individual project actions. SEPA regulations will be applied to future development that meets thresholds and appropriate mitigation will be required where necessary. No significant adverse impacts from the rezone are anticipated. More discussion about land use (density), traffic, parking, and height, bulk and scale follows. It compares impacts of the proposed P2 designation and rezoning all the NC2 and NC3 zones in the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village with a P2 designation with the temporary P2 designation.

 Land Use (density)

 Rezoning to designate the entire area, as well as smaller subareas, with a P2 Pedestrian designation is not expected to adversely impact land use in the subject and surrounding areas. Establishing a pedestrian designation would create non-conforming uses and will not change the permitted densities in the subject area.

 The proposed P2 Pedestrian designation would create four non- conforming properties-two because of parking location and two because of blank facades. This smaller area also places more emphasis on the east-west pedestrian connection across 15th Avenue NW.

 Rezoning the entire area with a P2 Pedestrian designation would create 20 non-conforming properties-nine because of use, including six single-family houses, and 11 because of parking location and/or blank facades. There is an additional drive-thru bank and five single-family homes within the Neighborhood Commercial zones in Crown Hill that are outside of the temporary P2 designation.

 The temporary P2 Pedestrian designation creates seven non-conforming properties-two because of use, including one single-family home, and five because of parking location and/or blank facades. Two banks with drive-thru services at the north end of the pedestrian designation would not be able to provide these services if the properties were to be redeveloped.

 The City's SEPA land use policy is to, "...ensure that proposed uses in development projects are reasonably compatible with surrounding uses and are consistent with any applicable, adopted land use regulations, the goals and policies set forth in Section B-3 of the land use element of the Seattle Comprehensive Plan..." The proposed rezone is intended to implement the goals and policies of the Crown Hill/Ballard Neighborhood Plan. The goals and policies of the Plan are consistent with the neighborhood planning element and Section B-3 of the land use element of the Seattle Comprehensive Plan. Overall commercial and residential development capacity, reviewed as part of the rezone analysis, would be virtually unchanged by the proposed rezones. Therefore, there would be no perceptible effect on the neighborhood's ability to accommodate growth over the long term. In addition, the rezone criteria found in SMC 23.34 of the Land Use Code is used in the evaluation of land use impacts and specifically states in SMC 23.34.007D, Rezone Evaluation, that "Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall constitute consistency with the Comprehensive Plan for the purpose of reviewing proposed rezones..."

 Traffic

 The proposed P2 Pedestrian designation encourages active retail and service uses at the street level. Future development would require 80% of each property's street-frontage to conform to the following list of permitted uses:

 * personal and household retail sales and service

 * eating and drinking establishments

 * customer service offices

 * entertainment

 * pet grooming

 * public library

 Analysis of the impacts of future individual development proposals will be conducted on a project-by-project basis, through SEPA review, as projects go through the Master Use Permit process. In general, many existing uses are consistent with the proposed P2 Pedestrian designation, and it is not expected that future travel patterns will change as a result of the type of use required by the designation. The P2 Pedestrian designation anticipates that future travel patterns will emphasize walking over driving and could result in fewer automobile trips generated. Additionally, the rezone area is within a Residential Urban Village and is expected to be well served by transit opportunities, which reduces reliance on single occupant vehicle and reduce traffic or parking impacts. Any pedestrian designation in this area is anticipated to contribute to a moderate reduction in the amount of traffic along 15th Avenue NW and NW 85th Street over the long term as properties redevelop, but this reduction is not likely to be significant.

 Parking

 Parking demand generated from commercial uses in the P2 Pedestrian designation are expected to be less when compared with more auto- oriented business districts because more people are expected to use other modes of transportation than cars. As a reflection of this, parking requirements are lower in P2 Pedestrian designations.

 In commercial zones, the Land Use Code currently waives parking requirements for the first 2,500 square feet of structures containing eating and drinking establishments, retail or customer service offices. This waiver would increase to 5,000 within the proposed P2 Pedestrian designation for retail and service uses (except eating and drinking establishments), customer service offices, and entertainment uses (except motion picture theaters). The waiver would remain the same for eating and drinking establishments and would apply to the first 150 seats of a motion picture theater.

 The proposed P2 Pedestrian designation would allow parking waivers to apply to 11 properties and approximately a dozen businesses, three of which are restaurants and two of which are vacant. If the waivers were fully used, spillover parking could moderately increase.

 Rezoning the entire area with a P2 designation is likely to have a larger impact on spillover parking than the temporary P2 designation because the number of businesses that could apply for the waiver would approximately double.

 The temporary P2 Pedestrian designation has allowed parking waivers for about 14 retail spaces, including two vacancies, during the past nine months. Although an exact number of businesses that have utilized the additional waiver is unknown, spillover parking impacts have not likely been significant, although they would be expected to increase as properties redevelop over time. Because this area is larger than the proposed P2 designation, it is expected that spillover impacts would be greater from this designation.

 Any P2 Pedestrian designation has the potential to slightly increase spillover parking in nearby residential areas. However, if spillover parking associated with projects creates adverse impacts, mitigation through SEPA is available for projects at SEPA thresholds. Street parking in this area may already be at capacity, so utilization studies could be required of new projects if a substantial number of spillover parking is anticipated. Projects could be required to provide more on-site parking, reduce the size of the project, or implement parking demand reduction measures. Projects that would not be subject to SEPA, generally projects less than 4,000 square feet, would not be likely to generate adverse parking impacts. No significant adverse impacts are anticipated related to spill-over parking.

 Height, Bulk and Scale

 Rezoning to add a pedestrian designation does not change the bulk standards for future development including allowed height and lot coverage. Therefore, no significant adverse impacts to height, bulk and scale are anticipated. Project-level impacts of particular development would be mitigated by application of commercial zone development standards during specific project review. Specific project impacts subject to environmental review could be additionally mitigated through SEPA if the Code does not sufficiently mitigate adverse impacts. Neighborhood Design Review could be required in cases where new construction is proposed within the area and SEPA is triggered. In these cases, SEPA policy with respect to height, bulk and scale impacts states, "[a] project that is approved pursuant to the Design Review Process shall be presumed to comply with these Height, Bulk and Scale policies. This presumption may be rebutted only by clear and convincing evidence that height, bulk and scale impacts documented through environmental review have not been adequately mitigated."

 Other impacts, such as earth movement, development within Environmentally Critical Areas, energy consumption, increased demand for public service or utilities, and increased ambient noise from increased human activity, will be eliminated or mitigated by compliance with existing codes and ordinances. Additionally, these other impacts may be analyzed and mitigated, if necessary, through SEPA during project level reviews.

 Housing

 Application of a P2 Pedestrian designation will not directly alter the number of housing units that could be built in the analysis area. Therefore, no significant adverse impacts to housing are anticipated. This is a non-project action. As such, individual projects and development in the area affected by this proposal will occur over time and cannot be evaluated in terms of specific housing impacts or income-level at this stage.

 Public Services and Facilities

 Rezoning to add a pedestrian designation does not change the demand for public services and facilities. Therefore, no significant adverse impacts to public services and facilities are anticipated. In general, providers of public services, including fire and police protection, health care, and schools, regularly review the effects of increased development and propose enhanced services as necessary when planning for future service needs. Additionally, the City's Capital Improvement Plan accounts for the level of growth reflected in the City's Comprehensive Plan, which is consistent with growth anticipated under the proposed legislation.

 DECISION - SEPA

 This decision was made after review by the responsible official on behalf of the lead agency of a completed environmental checklist and other information on file with the responsible department. This constitutes the Threshold Determination and form. The intent of this declaration is to satisfy the requirements of the State Environmental Policy Act (RCW 43.21C), including the requirement to inform the public agency decisions pursuant to SEPA.

 [X] Determination of Non-Significance. This proposal has been determined to not have a significant adverse impact upon the environment. An EIS is not required under RCW 43.21C.030 2c.

 [ ] Determination of Significance. This proposal has or may have a significant adverse impact upon the environment. An EIS is required under RCW 43.21C.030 2c.

 RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS - SEPA

 None.

 Signature_______________________________________________________Date: ___________

 Cliff Portman

 Principal Land Use Planner

 Department of Planning & Development

 Crown Hill P2 Pedestrian Designation - Determination

 Page 8

```
