

********

**Council Bill Number: 115646**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122169**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation to enter into a Lease Agreement with Renu Singh, dba Sunrise Foods, for the purpose of providing food concessions for park patrons at Golden Gardens Park.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 24, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 28, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 27, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 17, 2006
   
**Committee:** Parks, Education, Libraries and Labor
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, GOLDEN-GARDENS-PARK, EATING-AND-DRINKING-PLACES, CONTRACTS

**Fiscal Note:**115646

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation to enter into a Lease Agreement with Renu Singh, dba Sunrise Foods, for the purpose of providing food concessions for park patrons at Golden Gardens Park.

 WHEREAS, the Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR) has historically provided food service through seasonal concession agreements to the public from the south area of the Golden Gardens Park Bathhouse (Bathhouse); and

 WHEREAS, in 2005, DPR renovated and refurbished the Bathhouse, partially upgrading the south food concession area inside the facility; and

 WHEREAS, in late 2005, DPR conducted a publicly advertised Request for Proposal process to seek a company that would invest capital funds to finish the improvements to the concession area of the Bathhouse, and operate a food concession for park patrons at Golden Gardens Park; and

 WHEREAS, Renu Singh, dba as Sunrise Foods, was the successful bidder to the City of Seattle's (City) Request for Proposals; and

 WHEREAS, DPR desires to continue offering food services to park patrons at Golden Gardens Park; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation (Superintendent) is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City, a five year Concession Agreement with Renu Singh, dba Sunrise Foods, in substantially the form attached hereto as Attachment 1, with additions, modifications, or deletions as the Mayor or said Superintendent deems to be in the best interest of the City. The proposed agreement includes an option to extend the Concession Agreement for an additional five years at the mutual consent of both parties.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after

 presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment 1: GOLDEN GARDENS LEASE Exhibits to Attachment 1: Exhibit A: Golden Gardens Bathhouse and Park Exhibit B: GOLDEN GARDENS LEASE - Tenant Improvements Exhibit C: Concession Monthly Report of Gross Receipts Exhibit D: Approved Menu Exhibit E: GOLDEN GARDENS LEASE - Rules and Regulations

 July 19, 2006 Version #6 t

 ATTACHMENT 1

 GOLDEN GARDENS LEASE

 BETWEEN

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE,

 AS LANDLORD

 AND

 RENU SINGH, DBA SUNRISE FOODS,

 AS TENANT

 GOLDEN GARDENS LEASE

 THIS LEASE is entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("Landlord"), a city of the first class of the State of Washington,

 acting through its Department of Parks and Recreation, and RENU SINGH, dba Sunrise Foods, ("Tenant"), a sole proprietor.

 Landlord and Tenant covenant and agree as follows:

 1. Lease Data; Exhibits. The following terms shall have the following meanings, except as otherwise specifically modified in this Lease:

 A. Building: Golden Gardens Bathhouse, 8498 Seaview Place N.W., Seattle, King County, Washington 98117, situated on real property described more particularly in Subsection 2.A.

 B. Premises: A Rentable Area (as defined in Subsection 2.B) consisting of approximately 480 Rentable Square Feet located at the south end of the Building as outlined on the floor plan of the Building attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "Floor Plan of Premises"), including tenant improvements described in Exhibit B.

 C. Estimated Commencement Date: June 1, 2006, or such earlier or later date as is provided in Section 3.

 D. Expiration Date: September 30, 2011, unless the Term of this Lease is extended pursuant to Subsection 3.B.

 E. Rent: Tenant shall pay (1.) Percentage Rent and (2.) Additional Charges.

 1. Percentage Rent. Tenant shall pay Landlord Percentage Rent in accordance with the terms of Section 4.

 Percentage Rent. Percentage Rent is 12.4% of Tenant's Gross Receipts from the previous calendar month.

 Gross Receipts means the value proceeding or accruing from the sale of foods, services, and business transactions of every kind occurring on the Premises without any deduction for costs of products sold, material used, labor, or other expenses whatsoever paid or accrued. It excludes monies collected from the purchaser of foods, services or goods as Washington State Sales Taxes, or other excise taxes imposed by any government directly on sales or services to be charged to the consumer although collected by the seller.

 2. Additional Charges. Whether or not so designated, all other sums due from Tenant under this Lease, including but in no way limited to leasehold excise taxes, shall constitute Additional Charges, payable when specified in this Lease, and if not so specified, within ten (10) days of demand therefore.

 F. Security Deposit: $2,500.00.

 G. Permitted Use: Tenant shall use the Premises as is, in the opinion of the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of the City of Seattle, compatible with the use of Golden Gardens for parks and recreation purposes. As set forth in the previous sentence, the Premises shall only be used by Tenant as a self service, fast food, sit down restaurant and take out restaurant, to be called "Sunrise Foods" offering a menu approved by Landlord, which shall include a selection of at least five food healthy menu items and five beverage healthy menu items. Whether a particular item constitutes a healthy menu item shall be determined by Landlord. Tenant shall sell nothing other than approved menu items unless first approved by Landlord in writing. The menu may include no alcoholic beverages. Tenant shall sell nothing in a glass container. The sit down restaurant shall seat at least six (6) people at a time. Tenant shall assume all responsibility for obtaining and maintaining all applicable licenses necessary for its operations and paying all associated costs and expenses. The Premises shall be used for no other purpose without the prior written consent of the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle.

 H. Notice Addresses:

 To Landlord: Magnuson Park & Business Resources

 6310 N. E. 74th Street, #109E

 Seattle, WA 98115

 Attn: Concession Coordinator

 To Tenant: Sunrise Foods

 P. O. Box 80601

 Seattle, WA 98108

 Attn: Renu Singh

 I. Exhibits: The following exhibits are made a part of this Lease:

 Exhibit A - Golden Gardens Bathhouse and Park

 Exhibit B - Tenant Improvements

 Exhibit C - Concession Monthly Report of Gross Receipts

 Exhibit D - Approved Menu

 Exhibit E - Rules and Regulations

 2. Premises.

 A. Grant. Landlord hereby leases to Tenant, and Tenant hereby leases from Landlord, those certain premises (the "Premises") referenced in Section 1. The Premises are part of the Building which is located on and includes the real property described as follows: That part of Government Lot 1, Section 3, Township 25 North, Range 3 East W.M. lying west of the right of way of the Great Northern Railway; the South 1320 feet of Government Lot 1, Section 34, Township 26 North, Range 3 East W.M. lying west of the right of way of the Great Northern Railway; That part of Government Lot 2, Section 34, Township 26 North, Range 3 East W.M. lying west of the right of way of the Great Northern Railway; Blocks 24, 25, 26, Ballard Tidelands, Part of Stanley Mead's Replat of Blocks 22, 23, Ballard Tidelands, as follows: Lots 7, 10, 11, 19, 21, 22, 26, Block 22, All of lots 4, 5 21, all those parts of Lots 22, 24, 25, 26 lying west of the right of way of the Great Northern Railway; Together with vacated West 80th Street and West 85th Street lying west of the right of way of the Great Northern Railway.

 B. Condition. The Premises are leased by Landlord and accepted by Tenant in an "as is" condition. Tenant may make Tenant improvements in accordance with the terms of this Lease.

 3. Lease Term.

 This Lease shall be for a term ("Lease Term") beginning on the Commencement Date specified in Subsection 1.C and ending on the Expiration Date specified in Subsection 1.D, unless the Lease Term is terminated earlier in accordance with the provisions of this Lease. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all provisions of this Lease other than those relating to payment of Rent shall become effective upon the date that Tenant or any of its officers, employees, agents or contractors is first present on the Premises, whether for inspection, construction, installation or any other purpose.

 City Option to Extend. The City may extend the term of this Lease for an additional five year term in its sole discretion upon notice given at any time prior to the Expiration Date.

 Early Termination. Either party may terminate this Lease prior to the Expiration Date for any or no reason upon notice to the other party of at least thirty (30) days. If Tenant terminates this Lease pursuant to this paragraph, then the Security Deposit shall be

 forfeited to Landlord. Early termination pursuant to this paragraph shall have no effect on any obligation of Tenant under the Lease that, by its terms, survives the expiration or sooner termination of the Lease. If Landlord terminates pursuant to this paragraph, the disposition of the Security Deposit shall be in accordance with the terms of this Lease.

 4. Rent.

 Tenant shall pay to Landlord at the address and to the account specified by Landlord, without notice or demand or any setoff or deduction whatsoever, in lawful money of the United States:

 On or before the tenth (10th) calendar day of each month, the Percentage Rent as specified in Subsection 1.E. The first payment shall be due June 10, 2006 or ten days following the calendar month after which the facility is approved by the health department to operate as a food concession, and the last payment shall be due October 10, 2011.

 Tenant shall further submit a Monthly Concession Report on or before the tenth (10th) calendar day of each month. A Monthly Concession Report form is attached as Exhibit C.

 Tenant shall further pay to Landlord Additional Charges as and when specified elsewhere in this Lease, but if not specified, then within ten (10) days after demand. As an Additional Charge tenant shall pay to Landlord on the tenth (10th) of each calendar month leasehold excise taxes. As reasonably determined by Landlord, Additional Charges shall be prorated on a daily basis for any partial month within the Lease Term.

 5. Late Charge; Interest.

 If Tenant fails to pay any Rent or Additional Charge due hereunder within ten (10) days after the due date, a late charge equal to twenty five dollars ($25.00) plus one percent (1%) of the unpaid balance shall both be assessed and be immediately due and payable. In addition, interest shall accrue at the rate of one percent (1%) per month on any Rent or Additional Charge that is not paid when due.

 If Tenant defaults in making any payment of Rent or Additional Charges, Landlord shall have the right to require that subsequent Rent or Additional Charges payments be made by cashier's or certified check.

 6. Security Deposit.

 Tenant shall, within two (2) business days after receiving a fully executed copy of this Lease, deposit with Landlord the sum specified in Subsection 1.F of this Lease. This sum shall belong to Landlord and shall constitute partial consideration for the execution of this Lease, subject only to repayment when required in this section. Landlord shall pay Tenant the remaining balance thereof, without any liability for interest thereon, within thirty (30) days after the expiration or prior termination of the Lease Term, or any extension thereof, if and only if Tenant has fully performed all of its obligations under the terms of this Lease. Landlord shall be entitled to withdraw from the deposit the amount of any unpaid Rent or Additional Charges or other amounts not paid to Landlord when due, and Tenant shall immediately redeposit an amount equal to that so withdrawn within ten (10) days after the Landlord's demand therefore.

 7. Tenant's Operations.

 A. Use of Premises. Tenant shall use the Premises only for the Section l Permitted Use. Tenant shall promptly comply, at its sole cost and expense, with the Exhibit E rules and regulations and other such rules and regulations relating to the use of the Premises and Building as Landlord, from time to time, may promulgate. Tenant shall maintain the Premises in a clean, orderly and neat fashion and shall neither commit waste nor permit any waste to be committed thereon. Tenant shall not permit any accumulation of trash on or about the Premises.

 B. Unlawful Use. Tenant shall not use or permit the Premises or any part thereof to be used for any purpose in violation of any municipal, county, state or federal law, ordinance or regulation. Tenant shall promptly comply, at its sole cost and expense, with all laws, ordinances and regulations now in force or hereafter adopted relating to or affecting the condition, use or occupancy of the Premises including but not limited to all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington and The City of Seattle, including but not limited to chapters 14.04, 14.10, and 20.42 of the Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC"), as they may be amended; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 C. Liens and Encumbrances. Tenant shall keep the Premises and Building free and clear of, and shall indemnify, defend and hold Landlord harmless from, any and all, liens and encumbrances arising or growing out of any act or omission, or breach of this Lease or its use, improvement or occupancy of the Premises by Tenant or any of its principals, officers, employees or agents. If any lien is so filed against the Premises or Building, Tenant shall either cause the same to be fully discharged and released of record within ten (10) days after Landlord's demand therefore or within such period, provide Landlord with cash or other security acceptable to Landlord in an amount equal to one and one-half (11/2) times the amount of the claimed lien as security for its prompt removal. Landlord shall have the right to disburse such security to cause the removal of the lien if a judgment is entered against Tenant in the lien proceeding or if Landlord otherwise deems such necessary, in Landlord's sole discretion.

 D. Hazardous Substances. Tenant shall not, without Landlord's prior written consent, keep on or about the Premises or Building any substance designated as, or containing any component now or hereafter designated as hazardous, dangerous, toxic or harmful and/or subject to regulation under any federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance ("Hazardous Substances"). Tenant shall be fully and completely liable to Landlord for any and all cleanup costs and expenses and any and all other charges, expenses, fees, fines, penalties (both, civil and criminal) and costs imposed with respect to Tenant's use, disposal, transportation, generation and/or sale of Hazardous Substances in or about the Premises or Building. Tenant shall indemnify, defend and hold Landlord harmless from any and all of the costs, fees, penalties, charges and expenses assessed against, or imposed, upon Landlord (as well as Landlord's attorneys' fees and costs) as a result of Tenant's use, disposal, transportation, generation and/or sale of Hazardous Substances.

 8. Utilities and Services.

 A. General. Tenant shall be solely responsible for and shall pay when due and directly to the appropriate company all bills for natural gas, electricity, telephone and communication services due to its occupancy and use of the premises. All other utilities to the Premises shall be paid by the Landlord. Utilities include water, sewer, electricity, heat, air conditioning, natural gas, and landscape maintenance.

 B. Refuse Collection. Tenant shall provide at the Premises a minimum of two 50-gallon trash cans for use by Tenant's customers. Tenant shall each day remove and dispose of the contents of all Tenants' trash cans in a legal manner and at its sole cost and expense. Landlord may on occasion, but is not obligated to, provide dumpsters into which Tenant may empty its trash cans. On any day that Landlord provides dumpsters, Landlord will on that day remove the contents of the dumpsters at its sole cost.

 C. Recycling. Tenant shall provide its customers with receptacles for recycling. Tenant, at no cost to Landlord, shall collect, sort and separate into such categories as may be legally required, all solid waste products on the Premises, and recycle all such products that are locally accepted for recycling. Each separately sorted category of waste products shall be placed in separate receptacles reasonably approved by Landlord, which receptacles shall be dumped or removed from the Premises at such minimum frequency as shall be specified by Landlord.

 D. Security Systems. Landlord may supply the building with a security system operated by a company of its choosing. In such event, Landlord shall provide Tenant the security code to access the Premises, and Tenant shall arm the system at the close of business each day. Landlord shall not be responsible for any failure of the security system.

 E. Interruption. Landlord shall not be liable for any loss, injury or damage to person or property caused by or resulting from any variation, interruption or failure of services due to any cause whatsoever, including, but not limited to, electrical surges, or from failure to make any repairs or perform any maintenance. No temporary interruption or failure of such services incident to the making of repairs, alterations or improvements or due to accident, strike or conditions or events beyond Landlord's reasonable control shall be deemed an eviction of Tenant or to relieve Tenant from any of Tenant's obligations hereunder or to give Tenant a right of action against Landlord for damages. Tenant acknowledges its understanding that there may be Landlord-planned utility outages affecting the Building and that such outages may interfere, from time to time, with Tenant's use of the Premises. Landlord shall endeavor to provide Tenant with 48 hours prior notice of any Landlord-planned electricity outage in the Building but shall not be liable to Tenant for Landlord's failure to provide such notice. Landlord has no obligation to provide emergency or backup power to Tenant. The provision of emergency or backup power to the Premises or to enable the equipment therein to properly function shall be the sole responsibility of Tenant.

 9. Licenses and Taxes.

 Without any deduction or offset whatsoever, Tenant shall be liable for, and shall pay prior to delinquency, all taxes, license and excise fees and occupation taxes covering the business conducted on the Premises and all personal property taxes and other impositions levied with respect to all personal property located at the Premises or otherwise arising out of Tenant's operations on the Premises; Tenant shall pay all fees, charges, or costs, for any governmental inspections or examinations relating to Tenant's use and occupancy of the Premises, and shall pay all taxes on the leasehold interest created by this Agreement (e.g., leasehold excise taxes). The appropriate payment for leasehold excise taxes shall be remitted to Landlord with each percentage rent payment. Leasehold excise tax shall be listed separately on each Monthly Concessions Report. Tenant shall provide Landlord a copy of its current City of Seattle business license prior to placing any equipment on the Premises. Tenant shall keep all licenses current throughout the Lease Term and shall provide copies of all licenses to Landlord at the notice address listed in Section 1.

 10. Delivery of Premises.

 Landlord shall deliver the Premises to Tenant in an "AS IS" condition.

 11. Alterations by Tenant.

 Tenant shall commence construction of the work to be performed by Tenant under terms of Exhibit B promptly following receipt of a notice to proceed from Landlord and shall diligently prosecute such work to its completion. Tenant shall not make any alterations, additions or improvements in or to the Premises without first submitting to Landlord professionally-prepared plans and specifications for such work and obtaining Landlord's prior written approval thereof. Tenant shall make all alterations as may be necessary to receive all required permits and governmental approvals for the occupancy of the Premises and to conduct the Permitted Use thereon. Tenant covenants that it will cause all alterations, additions and improvements to the Premises to be completed at Tenant's sole cost and expense by a contractor approved by Landlord and in a manner that (a) is consistent with the Landlord-approved plans and specifications and any conditions imposed by Landlord in connection therewith; (b) includes acceptable insurance coverage for Landlord's benefit; (c) does not affect the structural integrity of the Building or any of the Building's systems; and (d) does not invalidate or otherwise affect the construction or any system warranty then in effect with respect to the Building. Tenant shall secure all governmental permits and approvals and comply with all other applicable governmental requirements and restrictions; and reimburse Landlord for all expenses incurred in connection therewith. Except as provided elsewhere in this Lease with regard to concurrent negligence, Tenant shall indemnify, defend and hold Landlord harmless from and against all losses, liabilities, damages, liens, costs, penalties and expenses (including attorneys' fees) arising from or out of the performance of such alterations, additions and improvements, including, but not limited to, all which arise from or out of Tenant's breach of its obligations under terms of this section captioned Alterations by Tenant. All alterations, additions and improvements (expressly including any and all light fixtures; heating, ventilation and air conditioning units; floor, window and wall coverings; and electrical wiring), except Tenant's moveable trade fixtures and appliances and equipment not affixed to the Premises and cabling and wiring for computers, telephones and other electronic equipment, shall immediately become the property of Landlord without any obligation on its part to pay for any of the same. These improvements remain Landlord's and Tenant shall not remove all or any portion thereof on the termination of this Lease except as specifically directed by Landlord in writing. Within ninety (90) days after the completion of any alteration, addition or improvement to the Premises, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a full set of "as-built" plans of the Premises showing the details of all alterations, additions and improvements made to the Premises.

 12. Care of Premises.

 A. General Obligation. Tenant shall take good care of the Premises and shall reimburse Landlord for all damage done to the Building or Premises that results from any act or omission of Tenant or any of Tenant's officers, contractors, agents, invitees, licensees or employees, including, but not limited to, cracking or breaking of glass. Tenant shall maintain its equipment in good working condition at no cost to Landlord. Tenant shall provide and keep on the Premises at all times a fire extinguisher meeting code requirements. Tenant shall comply with all fire code regulations pertaining to its equipment on the Premises.

 B. Custodial Obligation. Tenant shall at its own expense, at all times, keep the Premises and areas immediately adjacent thereto in a very neat, clean, safe, and sanitary condition; keep the glass of all windows and doors clean and presentable, and shall remove snow and ice. Tenant shall furnish all cleaning supplies and materials needed to operate the concession in the manner prescribed in this Lease; Tenant shall provide all necessary janitorial service to adequately maintain the inside of the Premises. Tenant shall be responsible for keeping the sidewalks immediately adjacent to the perimeter of the Premises free of litter and clean of spills resulting from Tenant's operations.

 If Tenant fails to take good care of the Premises, Landlord, at its option, may do so, and in such event, upon receipt of written statements from Landlord, Tenant shall promptly pay the entire cost thereof as an Additional Charge. Landlord shall have the right to enter the Premises for such purposes. Landlord shall not be liable for interference with light, air or view. All normal repairs necessary to maintain the Building in a reasonable condition, as determined by Landlord, shall be performed under Landlord's direction and at its expense, except as otherwise provided herein. Except as provided in the section captioned Destruction, there shall be no abatement or reduction of rent arising by reason of Landlord's making of repairs, alterations or improvements.

 C. Prohibited Equipment. No gas, coal, charcoal, or similar portable cooking equipment is permitted inside or outside the Premises unless prior written approval is obtained from the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, and unless all required permits are obtained by Tenant. Vending machines are prohibited on or about the Premises.

 13. Surrender of Premises.

 At the expiration or sooner termination of the Lease Term, Tenant shall return the Premises to Landlord in the same condition in which received (or, if altered, then the Premises shall be returned in such altered condition unless otherwise directed by Landlord), reasonable wear and tear excepted. Prior to such return, Tenant shall remove its personal property and moveable trade fixtures and appliances and equipment that have not been attached to the Premises, and shall repair any damage resulting from their removal. In no event shall Tenant remove floor coverings; heating, ventilating and air conditioning equipment; lighting equipment or fixtures; or floor, window or wall coverings unless otherwise specifically directed by Landlord in writing. Tenant's obligations under this paragraph shall survive the expiration or termination of this Lease. Tenant shall indemnify Landlord for all damages and losses suffered as a result of Tenant's failure to remove voice and data cables, wiring and communication lines and moveable trade fixtures and appliances and to redeliver the Premises on a timely basis. Tenant shall surrender all keys to the Premises or Building to Landlord.

 If upon expiration or ten (10) days after termination of this Lease Tenant has not removed its personal property and moveable trade fixtures and appliances and equipment, Landlord may, but need not, remove Tenant's personal property and hold it for the Tenant, or place the same in storage, all at the expense and risk of the Tenant. Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for any expense incurred by Landlord in connection with such removal and storage. Landlord shall have the right to sell such stored property, without notice to Tenant, after it has been stored for a period of thirty (30) days or more, the proceeds of such sale to be applied first, to the cost of sale; second, to the payment of the charges for storage; and third, to the payment of any other amounts which may then be due from Tenant to Landlord; the balance, if any, shall be paid to the Tenant.

 14. Waiver; Indemnification.

 A. Tenant's Indemnification. Except as otherwise provided in this section, Tenant shall indemnify, defend (using legal counsel acceptable to Landlord) and save Landlord, its officers, agents, employees and contractors, harmless from all claims, suits, losses, damages, fines, penalties, liabilities and expenses (including Landlord's personnel and overhead costs and attorneys' fees and other costs incurred in connection with claims, regardless of whether such claims involve litigation) resulting from any actual or alleged injury (including death) of any person or from any actual or alleged loss of or damage to, any property arising out of or in connection with (i) Tenant's occupation, use or improvement of the Premises, or that of any of its employees, agents or contractors, (ii) Tenant's breach of its obligations hereunder, or (iii) any act or omission of Tenant or any subtenant, licensee, assignee or concessionaire of Tenant, or of any officer, agent, employee, guest or invitee of any of the same in or about the Building. Tenant agrees that the

 foregoing indemnity specifically covers actions brought by its own employees. This indemnity with respect to acts or omissions during the Lease Term shall survive termination or expiration of this Lease. The foregoing indemnity is specifically and expressly intended to, constitute a waiver of Tenant's immunity under Washington's Industrial Insurance Act, RCW Title 51, to the extent necessary to provide Landlord with a full and complete indemnity. Tenant shall promptly notify Landlord of casualties or accidents occurring in or about the Premises. LANDLORD AND TENANT ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE INDEMNIFICATION PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION WERE SPECIFICALLY NEGOTIATED AND AGREED UPON BY THEM.

 B. Release of Claims. Tenant hereby fully and completely waives and releases all claims against Landlord for any losses or other damages sustained by Tenant or any person claiming through Tenant resulting from any accident or occurrence in or upon the Premises, including but not limited to any defect in or failure of Building equipment; any failure to make repairs; any defect, failure, surge in, or interruption of Building facilities or services; broken glass; water leakage; the collapse of any Building component; or any act, omission or negligence of any licensees or any other persons or occupants of the Building.

 C. Limitation of Tenant's Indemnification. In compliance with RCW 4.24.115 as in effect on the date of this Lease, all provisions of this Lease pursuant to which Landlord or Tenant (the "Indemnitor") agrees to indemnify the other (the "Indemnitee") against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to Persons or damage to property relative to the construction, alteration, repair, addition to, subtraction from, improvement to, or maintenance of, any building, road, or other structure, project, development, or improvement attached to real estate, including the Building, (i) shall not apply to damages caused by or resulting from the sole negligence of the Indemnitee, its agents or employees, and (ii) to the extent caused by or resulting from the concurrent negligence of (a) the Indemnitee or the Indemnitee's agents or employees, and (b) the Indemnitor or the Indemnitor's agents or employees, shall apply only to the extent of the Indemnitor's negligence; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, the limitations on indemnity set forth in this section shall automatically and without further act by either Landlord or Tenant be deemed amended so as to remove any of the restrictions contained in this section no longer required by then applicable law.

 15. Insurance.

 A. Tenant-Provided Insurance Coverages and Limits of Liability.

 (1) Prior to the commencement of any Premises use under this Lease, Tenant shall maintain, in full force and effect, at no expense to Landlord, insurance as specified below:

 (a) Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance including:

 - Premises/Operations

 - Products/Completed Operations

 - Personal/Advertising Injury

 - Contractual

 - Stop Gap/Employers Liability

 - Independent Contractors

 - Fire/Tenant Legal

 Such insurance shall provide a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 each occurrence bodily injury and property damage combined single limit (CSL) except:

 $1,000,000 each offense Personal/Advertising injury

 $ 500,000 Fire/Tenant Legal

 $1,000,000 each accident/disease/employee Stop Gap/Employers

 Liability

 (b) Automobile Liability insurance, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles as appropriate with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 CSL.

 (c) Workers' Compensation insurance securing Tenant's liability for industrial injury to its employees in accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington.

 (d) Property Insurance under which the Tenant's furniture, fixtures, equipment and inventory and all alterations, additions, improvements that Tenant makes to the Premises and trade fixtures that Tenant installs within the Premises (Tenant Property) are insured throughout the Lease Term on a replacement cost basis against the following perils: (i) loss from the perils of fire and other risks of direct physical loss, not less broad than provided by the insurance industry standard "Causes of Loss - Special Form (ISO form CP 1030 or equivalent); (ii) loss or damage from water leakage or sprinkler systems now or hereafter installed in or on the Premises; (iii) loss

 or damage by explosion of steam boilers, pressure vessels, oil or gasoline storage tanks or similar apparatus now or hereafter installed on the Premises; (iv) loss from business interruption or extra expense, with sufficient coverage to provide for the payment of rent and other fixed costs during any interruption of Tenant's business. Landlord shall be provided with an insurer's waiver of subrogation and, in addition, a waiver of rights of recovery as respects to any deductible amount under such insurance.

 B. Landlord-Provided Insurance Coverages and Limits of Liability. Prior to the commencement of any Premises use under this Lease, Landlord shall secure and shall thereafter maintain, in full force and effect throughout the entire Lease Term, all risks of direct of direct physical loss or damage property insurance or self-insurance on the Building (excluding Tenant Property) on a replacement cost basis. Tenant shall be provided with an insurer's waiver of subrogation and, in addition, a waiver of rights of recovery for any deductible amount expended by the City except to the extent to which both (1) Tenant may be responsible for loss of damage to the Building, and (2) Tenant's Fire/Tenant Liability insurance responds to such liability.

 C. General Requirements Regarding Tenant's Insurance; Adjustments (Not Applicable to Worker's Compensation Insurance).

 (1) The insurance required by Subsections 15.A (1) (a) and (b) shall be endorsed to include the City of Seattle as an additional insured for primary and non-contributory limits of liability and shall not be cancelled without a 45 day written notice of cancellation, except 30 days for surplus lines policies and 10 days as respects cancellation for non-payment of premium, to the Landlord in accordance with the provisions of RCW 48.18.290 ("Cancellation by insurer"). Such notice shall be delivered to Landlord at its address as specified in or pursuant to Subsection 1.K hereof.

 (2) All insurance policies required hereunder shall be subject to approval by the Landlord's Risk Manager as to company, form and coverage. All policies shall be issued by a company rated A-:VII or higher in the then-current A. M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington surplus lines licensed insurance broker.

 (3) Any deductible or self-insured retention in excess of $2,500 must be disclosed to, and shall be subject to approval by, the Landlord's Risk Manager. The cost of any claim payments falling within a deductible or self-insured retention shall be the responsibility of Tenant.

 (4) Coverage and/or limits may be altered or increased as necessary to reflect type of or exposure to risk. Landlord shall have the right to periodically review the appropriateness of such coverage and limits in view of inflation and/or changing industry conditions and to require an increase in such coverage or limits upon ninety (90) days' prior written notice.

 D. Evidence of Insurance (Not Applicable to Worker's Compensation Insurance).

 The following documents must be delivered to the Landlord at its address as specified in or pursuant to Subsection 1.K hereof, as evidence of the insurance coverage secured and maintained by Tenant:

 (1) On or before the Commencement Date, and thereafter, not later than five (5) days prior to the expiration or renewal date of each such policy:

 (a) A copy of each policy's declarations page showing the insuring company, policy period, limits of liability and a copy of each policy's schedule of forms and endorsements;

 (b) A copy of policy provisions or endorsements documenting that the City of Seattle is an Additional Insured for primary and non- contributory limits of liability;

 (c) A copy of the policy provisions documenting that coverage shall not be cancelled without a 45 day written notice of cancellation to the Landlord, except 30 days for surplus lines policies and 10 days as respects cancellation for non-payment of premium, in accordance with the provisions of RCW 48.18.290 ("Cancellation by insurer").

 (2) Pending issuance of the documentation specified in Subsection 16.C (1) hereof, binders and evidence of property insurance may be furnished to documenting compliance with the provisions of this Section 14 in lieu of declarations pages and schedule of forms and endorsements.

 (3) Within thirty (30) Days after Tenant's receipt of Landlord's written request therefore, a certified true and complete copy of each policy.

 E. Reconstruction Following Loss. Landlord shall proceed with reasonable diligence as soon as sufficient insurance and other funds are available therefore, to prepare plans and specifications for, and thereafter to carry out, all work necessary (a) to repair and restore the Building and the Premises (excluding Tenant Property) that have been damaged by any insured casualty to their former condition, or (b) to replace the Premises (excluding Tenant Property) and all improvements made thereto with a facility of a quality and usefulness for the activities contemplated in this Lease that is at least equivalent to, or more suitable than, the Building and Premises that were damaged or destroyed. Tenant shall proceed with reasonable diligence as soon as sufficient insurance and other funds are available to repair, restore and or replace its Tenant Property so as to resume activities as contemplated in this Lease.

 F. Assumption of Risk. The placement and storage of its personal property in the Premises shall be the responsibility, and at the sole risk, of Tenant.

 16. Assignment or Sublease.

 Tenant shall not sublet or encumber the whole or any part of the Premises, nor shall this Lease or any interest thereunder be assignable or transferable by operation of law or by any process or proceeding of any court or otherwise without the prior written consent of Landlord. The granting of consent to a given transfer shall not constitute a waiver of the consent requirement as to future transfers. Any assignment or sublease, without Landlord's prior written consent, at Landlord's option, shall be void. No assignment or sublease shall release Tenant from primary liability hereunder. Each assignment and sublease shall be by an instrument in writing in form satisfactory to Landlord. If Tenant is a corporation, then any transfer of this Lease by merger, consolidation or liquidation, or any direct or indirect change, in the ownership of, or power to vote the majority of, Tenant's outstanding voting stock, shall constitute an assignment for the purposes of this Lease. If Tenant is a partnership, then a change in general partners in or voting or decision-making control of the partnership shall also constitute an assignment.

 17. Destruction.

 If the Premises are rendered partially or totally untenantable by fire or other casualty, Landlord may elect to terminate this Lease and/or cause repairs to be made. Rent shall be abated in the proportion that the untenantable portion of the Premises bears to the whole thereof, as determined by Landlord, for the period from the date of the casualty to the completion of the repairs, unless the casualty results from or is contributed to by the negligence of Tenant or any of its officers, contractors, agents, invitees, guests or employees or Tenant's breach of this Lease. If thirty percent (30%) or more of the Building floor space is destroyed or damaged, then regardless of whether the Premises are damaged or not, Landlord may elect to terminate this Lease. Landlord shall advise Tenant of Landlord's election to repair or terminate by giving notice to Tenant thereof within thirty (30) days after the occurrence. In the event of damage by casualty, Tenant shall, at its sole cost and expense, repair all damage to its own personal property and to all improvements that Tenant has made to the Premises. Landlord shall not be liable to Tenant for damages, compensation or other sums for inconvenience, loss of business or disruption arising from any repairs to or restoration of any portion of the Building or Premises.

 18. Eminent Domain.

 A. Taking. If all or a portion of the Premises are taken by Eminent Domain, this Lease shall terminate as of the date Tenant is required to vacate any portion of the Premises and all Rent and Additional Charges shall be paid to that date. The term "Eminent Domain" shall include the taking or damaging of property by, through or under any governmental or statutory authority, and any purchase or acquisition in lieu thereof, whether the damaging or taking is by government or any other person. If this Lease is so terminated, all Rent and Additional Charges shall be paid to the date of termination.

 B. Award. Landlord reserves all rights to the entire damage award or payment for any taking by Eminent Domain, and Tenant waives all claims whatsoever against Landlord for damages for termination of its leasehold interest in the Premises or for interference with its business. Tenant hereby grants and assigns to Landlord any rights Tenant may now have or hereafter acquire to such damages and agrees to execute and deliver such further instruments of assignment as Landlord, from time to time, may request. Tenant, however, shall have the right to claim from the condemning authority all compensation that may be recoverable by Tenant on account of any loss incurred by Tenant in moving Tenant's merchandise, furniture, trade fixtures and equipment, provided, however, that Tenant may claim such damages only if they are awarded separately in the eminent domain proceeding and not out of or as part of Landlord's damages.

 19. Default by Tenant.

 A. Definition. If Tenant violates or breaches or fails to keep or perform any covenant, term or condition of this Lease, or if Tenant abandons, deserts, vacates, or otherwise removes its operations from the Premises without the prior consent of Landlord, Tenant shall be deemed in default hereunder (a "Default"). If a Default continues for or is not remedied within ten (10) days (or, if no default of any monetary obligation is involved, within thirty (30) days) after written notice thereof has been given by Landlord to Tenant specifying the Default, then Landlord shall have the following nonexclusive rights and remedies, at its option: (i) to cure such default on Tenant's behalf and at Tenant's sole expense and to charge Tenant for all costs and expenses incurred by Landlord in effecting such cure as an Additional Charge; or (ii) to elect at any time to terminate this Lease and all of the rights of Tenant in or to the Premises. Notwithstanding the foregoing time frames, if Tenant's Default is a violation of any health regulation, as determined by the Seattle King County Department of Health, then Landlord may terminate this Lease immediately.

 If Landlord elects to terminate this Lease, Tenant shall also be liable to City for all amounts necessary to compensate Landlord for all the detriment proximately caused by Tenant's failure to perform its obligations under this Lease or that in the ordinary course of things would be likely to result there from, including but not limited to, any costs or expenses incurred in maintaining or preserving the Premises after such Default, and any costs incurred in authorizing others the use and occupancy of the Premises and in preparing the Premises for such use and occupancy, and such other amounts in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing as may be permitted from time to time by the laws of the State of Washington.

 20. Landlord's Remedies Cumulative; Waiver.

 Landlord's rights and remedies hereunder are not exclusive, but cumulative, and Landlord's exercise of any right or remedy due to a default or breach by Tenant shall not be deemed a waiver of, or alter, affect or prejudice any other right or remedy that Landlord may have under this Lease or by law or in equity. Neither the acceptance of rent nor any other act or omission of Landlord at any time or times after the happening of any event authorizing the cancellation or forfeiture of this Lease shall operate as a waiver of any past or future violation, breach or failure to keep or perform any covenant, agreement, term or condition hereof or to deprive Landlord of its right to cancel or forfeit this Lease, upon the written notice provided for herein, at any time that cause for cancellation or forfeiture may exist, or be construed so as to stop Landlord at any future time from promptly exercising any other option, right or remedy that it may have under any term or provision of this Lease.

 21. Attorneys' Fees.

 If either party retains the services of an attorney in connection with enforcing the terms of this Lease, each party agrees to bear its own attorneys' fees and costs.

 22. Access by Landlord.

 Landlord and its agents shall have the right to enter the Premises at any time to examine the same and to make such repairs, alterations, additions or improvements to the Premises or Building as Landlord may deem necessary or desirable. If Tenant is not personally present to permit entry and an entry is necessary in an emergency, Landlord may enter the same by master key or may forcibly enter the same, without rendering Landlord liable therefore. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to impose upon Landlord any duty of repair or other obligation not specifically stated in this Lease. Tenant shall change the locks to the Premises only through Landlord and upon paying Landlord for all costs related thereto.

 23. Holding Over.

 Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the parties hereto, any holding over by Tenant after the expiration of the Lease Term, whether or not consented to by Landlord, shall be construed as a tenancy from month-to-month on the terms and conditions set forth herein. Any holdover tenancy may be terminated by either party by written notice delivered to the other party not later than twenty (20) days prior to the end of month. If Tenant fails to surrender the Premises upon the expiration or termination of this Lease, Tenant shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Landlord from all losses, damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from such failure, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any claims made by any succeeding tenant arising out of such failure.

 24. Notices.

 Any notice, demand or request required hereunder shall be given in writing to the party's address set forth in Section 1.H hereof by any of the following means: (a) personal service; (b) commercial or legal courier; or (c) registered or certified, first class mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested. Such addresses may be changed by notice to the other parties given in the same manner as above provided. Notices shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of actual receipt, as evidenced by the deliverer's affidavit, the recipient's acknowledgment of receipt, or the courier's receipt, except in the event of attempted delivery during the recipient's normal business hours at the proper address by an agent of a party or by commercial or legal courier or the U.S. Postal Service but refused acceptance, in which case notice shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of the day of attempted delivery, as evidenced by the messenger's affidavit of inability to deliver stating the time, date, place and manner in which such delivery was attempted and the manner in which such delivery was refused, or on the day immediately following deposit with such courier or, if sent pursuant to subsection (c), forty-eight (48) hours following deposit in the U.S. mail.

 25. Tenant Authority and Liability.

 Tenant warrants that this Lease has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Tenant, and that Tenant has the requisite power and authority to enter into this Lease and perform its obligations hereunder. Tenant covenants to provide Landlord with evidence of its authority and the authorization of this Lease upon request.

 26. Continuous Operation.

 Tenant shall keep the Premises open and use them to transact business with the public daily during hours as designated below or as otherwise may be designated by the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of the City of Seattle. Subject to the approval of the Superintendent, Tenant may, upon posting a written notice to the public of not less than one week in duration prior to any approved closure; close the Premises for a reasonable period for repairs or any approved remodeling, or for taking inventory. Tenant shall close to accommodate construction by Landlord of public improvements upon one week's notice from the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of the City of Seattle. Tenant shall furnish an approved sign at the Premises entrance advising the public of any approved closure.

 Minimum hours of operation of the Premises are as follows:

 Jan-Feb - 4 hours per weekend

 March-April - 8 hours per weekend

 May - June - 12 hours per weekend, 10 hours per M-F

 July-August - 16 hours per weekend, 40 hours per M-F

 Sept - 12 hours per weekend, 10 hours per M-F

 Oct - Nov - 8 hours per weekend

 Dec - 4 hours per weekend

 The dates and times of operation may be modified from time to time due to inclement weather and by mutual agreement of the parties hereto.

 27. Standards.

 Tenant recognizes that, although it is operating its facilities as an independent operator for profit, the Department of Parks and Recreation is organized and exists for the purpose of maintaining park and recreation facilities for the use and enjoyment of the general public. Tenant, its agents and employees, will devote their efforts toward rendering courteous service to the public as though they were employees of the City, with a view of adding to the enjoyment of the patrons of Golden Gardens Park.

 Tenant shall operate and conduct the facilities on the Premises in a businesslike manner, and will not permit any conduct on the part of Tenant's employees which would be detrimental to the Landlord's operation of Golden Gardens Park.

 Tenant shall provide sufficient personnel to adequately staff the concession at all times. All personnel shall be dressed in neat appearing attire which clearly identifies them as Tenant's employees.

 In the event the City receives a substantial amount of customer complaints regarding the operation at this facility, the City will notify the concessionaire and he/she shall take whatever action as appropriate to remedy the situation in a timely manner to the satisfaction of the City.

 28. City's Control of Premises and Vicinity.

 All common and other facilities provided by the City in or about the Premises, including any parking areas and picnic areas, are subject to the exclusive control and management by the City. Accordingly, the City may do, therefore, any and all of the following (among other activities in support of Parks and Recreation Department of other municipal objectives), all without incurring any liability whatsoever to Tenant:

 Change of Vicinity. The City may increase, reduce, or change in any manner whatsoever the number, dimensions, and locations of the walks, buildings, and parking areas in the vicinity of the Premises;

 Traffic Regulation. The City may regulate all traffic within and adjacent to the Premises, including the operation and parking of vehicles of Tenant and its invitees, employees, and patrons.

 Display of Promotional Materials. The City may erect, display, and remove promotional exhibits and materials and permit special events on property adjacent to and nearby the Premises.

 Promulgation of Rules. The City shall promulgate, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations regarding the use and occupancy of any City park property including, but not limited to, the Premises. The Rules and Regulations, attached as Exhibit E, are subject to the City's continued right of review and amendment.

 Change of Businesses. The City may change the size, number, and type and identity of concessions, stores, businesses and operations being conducted or undertaken in the vicinity of the Premises.

 29. Tenants Records.

 Tenant shall keep true, full, and accurate books of account setting forth Gross Receipts, together with any other information which will in any way affect the determination of Percentage Rent payable under this Lease. Landlord shall be allowed after five days prior notice, to inspect Tenant's books of account at the Premises and to procure audits thereof by a Certified Public Accountant. If in the judgment of such accountant Tenant's books of account are incomplete or improperly reflect the information necessary to an accurate determination of the rents payable under this Lease, or if the audit shall show that the reports submitted by Tenant understated Tenant's Gross Receipts by more than three percent (3%) thereof for any year covered by the audit, the costs and fees for such audit shall be paid by Tenant as an Additional Charge. If such audit discloses any willful or intentional effort to understate Gross Receipts, then, at Landlord's option, Tenant may be required to surrender possession of the Premises.

 Tenant shall retain all books of accounting and any other information which will in any way affect the determination of Percentage Rent payable under this Lease for a period of six (6) years after the expiration or termination of this Lease, and Tenant shall make them available for inspection at the Premises within ten (10) days of Landlord's demand therefore. This section shall survive expiration or termination of this Lease.

 30. Data to State and Federal Governments.

 Within ten (10) days of Landlord's request therefore, Tenant shall provide, at Tenant's sole cost and expense, necessary data relating

 to Tenant's use of the Premises or to any aspect(s) of this Lease, including reports or information of any kind, to enable Landlord to fully comply with any and every requirement of the State of Washington and the United States of America.

 31. Background Investigation.

 Landlord may obtain a background investigation as required by law for all Tenant's staff, personnel, and contractors working on the Premises. Tenant shall provide information as requested by Landlord for the purpose of said background investigation(s).

 32. Force Majeure.

 Landlord shall not be deemed in default hereof nor liable for damages arising from its failure to perform its duties or obligations hereunder if such is due to any cause beyond its reasonable control, including, but not limited to an act of Nature, act of civil or military authority, fire, flood, windstorm, earthquake, strike or labor disturbance, civil commotion, delay in transportation, governmental delay, or war.

 33. Counterparts.

 This Lease may be executed by the parties in counterparts, which, taken together, constitute the entire Lease.

 34. Headings.

 The section headings used in this Lease are used for purposes of convenience and do not alter in any manner the content of the sections.

 35. Context.

 Whenever appropriate from the context, the use of any gender shall include any other or all genders, and the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.

 36. Time of Essence; Time Calculation Method.

 Time is of the essence with respect to this Lease. Except as otherwise specifically provided, any reference in this Lease to the word "day" means a "calendar day;" Provided, that if the final day for any action required hereunder is a Saturday, Sunday or City holiday, such action shall not be required until the next succeeding day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or City holiday. Any reference in this Lease to the word "month" means "calendar month."

 37. Entire Agreement; Applicable Law.

 This Lease and the Exhibits attached hereto, and by this reference incorporated herein, set forth the entire agreement of Landlord and Tenant concerning the Premises, and there are no other agreements or understanding, oral or written, between Landlord and Tenant concerning the Premises. Any subsequent modification or amendment of this Lease shall be binding upon Landlord and Tenant only if reduced to writing and signed by them. This Lease shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington.

 38. Negotiated Agreement.

 The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this instrument the day and year indicated below.

 LANDLORD: TENANT:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE RENU SINGH, dba Sunrise Foods

 By: ______________________________ By:

 [Signature] [Signature]

 Kenneth R. Bounds, Superintendent

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 [Print or type name of signer]

 [Print or type title of signer]

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for Lessor, The City of Seattle)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ______________, , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared Ken Bounds, known to me to be the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in the certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 STATE OF )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for Tenant)

 COUNTY OF )

 On this day of , , before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of , duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared

 , to me known to be the ______________________ of , the entity that executed the foregoing Lease as Tenant; and acknowledged to me that signed the same as the free and voluntary act and deed of said entity for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and that was authorized to execute said Lease for said entity.

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that the person appearing before me and making this acknowledgment is the person whose true signature appears on this document.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the day and year in this certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of residing at

 My commission expires ______________.

 Attachment 1

 i

 Attachment 1 to DPR Golden Gardens Lease ORD

 25

 24

 Attachment 1 to Golden Gardens Lease ORD

[Exhibit A to Attachment 1 - Golden Gardens Bathhouse and Park](/~ordpics/115646.gif)

 Exhibit B

 GOLDEN GARDENS LEASE - Tenant Improvements

 Tenant shall make the following improvements to the Premises to be completed no later than August 31, 2006:

 * Install sheet rock and paint to finish the walls

 * Install floor covering to finish and seal the floors

 * Paint or seal the exposed wood in open ceiling area

 * Install cabinets in the outer area for a counter area

 * Supply necessary equipment to run a successful concession - i.e. Commercial oven/stove, refrigerator/freezer, etc.

 Tenant shall make the following improvements to the Premises to be completed no later than December 31, 2006:

 * install on the Premises an exhaust hood with a fire suppression system, inside the building in the food concession area

 Tenant shall further provide and install all concession equipment necessary to use the Premises for the Permitted Use and to meet the public need as determined by the City.

 Exhibit B to Attachment 1 to DPR Golden Gardens Lease ORD

 Exhibit C

 CONCESSION MONTHLY REPORT OF GROSS RECEIPTS

 For the Month of _________________Year________ Concession Location_______________________

 Total Sales from Refreshments: $__________.____

 Total Sales from Rentals, Merchandise, or Misc. Items: $__________.____

 Total Gross Receipts (Should equal Total of Daily Gross Receipts Listed Below): $____________.____ 'A'

 Deduct Sales Tax Only from above amount 'A': $____________.____ 'B'

 Adjusted Gross Receipts TOTAL ('A' - 'B'): $____________.____ 'C'

 Amount due Park Department at 12.4% of Adj. Gross Receipts ('C'): $____________.____ 'D'

 State Leasehold Excise Tax (12.84%) on above percentage 'D': $____________.____ 'E'

 TOTAL REMITTED ('D' + 'E') to Parks: $____________.____ 'F'

 Mail total Payment ('F') to: Seattle Parks and Recreation, Attn: Concession Coordinator

 6310 NE 74th Street #109E, Seattle, WA 98115

 Year to Date Accounting Detail:

 Year to Date Gross Receipts (Add 'C' amounts for each month): $____________.____

 Year to Date Amount Paid to Park Dept. (Add 'D' amounts for each month): $____________.____

 I, the undersigned, do hereby certify, under penalty of perjury, that the above gross sales statement is true and correct.

 Signed: ______________________________ Company _______________________________Date:______________ Date Received by Department: ________________ Checked & Approved By: ______________________________

 Day of Time Opened Hours Daily Gross Day of Time Opened Hours Daily Gross Month & Closed Opened Receipts Month & Closed Opened Receipts

 1 17

 2 18

 3 19

 4 20

 5 21

 6 22

 7 23

 8 24

 9 25

 10 26

 11 27

 12 28

 13 29

 14 30

 15 31

 16 TOTAL: 'A'

 EXHIBIT D

 Approved Menu

 Item Price Healthy

 Drinks Choice

 Branded Soft Drinks - 12 oz Can $1.00

 Branded Soft Drinks - 20 oz Bottle $1.50

 Sports Drinks - 16 oz $2.00 *

 Water - (Bottled) - 16 oz $1.00 *

 Fountain Drinks 20 oz $1.00

 Fountain Drinks 24 oz $1.50

 Coffee - 16 oz $1.50

 Espresso Drinks $4.00

 Food

 Hot Dogs $2.00

 Sandwiches $3.00

 Salad $4.00 *

 Chips - Small Bag $0.75

 Branded Chips $1.50

 Pretzels $1.00 *

 Trail Mix $2.00 *

 Fruit (Apple, Orange, Banana) $1.00 *

 Cookies $1.50

 Candy Bars $1.00

 Granola Bars $2.00 *

 Frozen Fruit Bars $2.00 *

 Ice Cream - Low End Variety $0.75 $1.50

 Ice Cream - High End Variety $2.00 $3.00

 Shaved Ice $1.50 $3.00

 NOTE: Menu will be expanded after installation of exhaust hood with fire suppression system.

 Exhibit E

 GOLDEN GARDENS LEASE

 Rules and Regulations

 1. Except as specifically provided in the Lease to which these Rules and Regulations are attached, no sign, placard, picture, advertisement, name or notice shall be installed or displayed on any part of the outside or inside of the Building without the prior written consent of Landlord. Landlord shall have the right to remove, at Tenant's expense and without notice, any sign installed or displayed in violation of this rule. All approved signs or lettering on doors and walls shall be printed, painted, affixed or inscribed at the expense of Tenant by a person approved by Landlord.

 2. No curtains, draperies, blinds, shutters, shades, screens or other coverings, hangings or decorations shall be attached to, hung or placed in, or used in connection with any window of the Building without the prior written consent of the Landlord, which Landlord may withhold in its sole and absolute discretion. Tenant shall not alter or remove any exterior window glass of the Building for any reason.

 3. Tenant shall not obstruct any sidewalks, halls, passages, exits, or entrances of the Building. However, Tenant may provide outdoor seating as approved by Landlord. No tenant and no employee or invitee of Tenant shall go upon the roof of the Building.

 4. Landlord will furnish Tenant, free of charge, three (3) keys to each door lock in the Premises.

 5. If Tenant requires telegraphic, telephonic, burglar alarm or similar services, it shall first obtain, and comply with, Landlord's instructions as to their installation.

 6. No equipment, materials, furniture, packages, supplies, merchandise or other property will be received in the Premises except between such hours as may be designated by Landlord. Tenant's initial move in and subsequent deliveries and removals of heavy or bulky items, such as furniture, equipment, and similar items shall, unless otherwise agreed by Landlord, be made during the hours of 6 P.M. to 6 A.M. and subject to such limitations as Landlord may impose. No delivery shall be made that impedes or interferes with the public's use of the Building or the Golden Gardens park.

 7. Landlord shall have the right to prescribe the weight, size and position of all equipment, materials, furniture or other property brought onto or about the Premises. Landlord will not be responsible for loss of, or damage to, any such furniture, equipment, or other property brought onto or about the Premises from any cause, and all damage done to the Premises or Building by maintaining or moving such equipment or other property shall be repaired at the expense of Tenant.

 8. Tenant shall not use or keep in the Premises any kerosene, gasoline or flammable or combustible fluid or material. Tenant shall not use or permit to be used in the Premises any foul or noxious gas or substance, or permit or allow the Premises to be occupied or used in a manner offensive or objectionable to Landlord by reason of noise, odors or vibrations from the Premises, nor shall Tenant bring into or keep on or about the Premises any animal other than a hearing or seeing-guide dog.

 9. Tenant shall not use any method of heating or air conditioning other than that approved by Landlord.

 10. Tenant shall close and lock the doors of its Premises and entirely shut off all water faucets or other water apparatus, and electricity, gas or air outlets before Tenant and its employees leave the Premises. Tenant shall be responsible for any damage or injuries sustained by Landlord for Tenant's noncompliance with this rule.

 11. The toilet rooms, toilets, urinals, wash bowls and other apparatus shall not be used for any purpose other than that for which they were constructed and no foreign substance of any kind whatsoever shall be thrown therein. The expense of any breakage, stoppage or damage resulting from violation of this rule shall be borne by the Tenant who, or whose employee or invitee, shall have caused it.

 12. Tenant shall not mark, drive nails, screw or drill into the partitions, woodwork or plaster, or in any way deface the Premises or any part thereof, except in accordance with the provisions of the Lease pertaining to alterations or tenant improvements. Landlord reserves the right to direct electricians as to where and how telephone and telegraph wires are to be introduced to the Premises. Tenant shall not cut or bore holes for wires. Tenant shall not affix any floor covering to the floor of the Premises or any wall or ceiling coverings in any manner except as approved by Landlord. Tenant shall repair any damage resulting from noncompliance with this rule.

 13. Tenant shall not install, maintain or operate upon the Premises any vending machine, video game or other coin-operated or coin- activated device.

 14. Tenant shall store all its trash and garbage within its Premises or as otherwise may be directed by the Landlord. Tenant shall not place in any trash box or receptacle any material that cannot be disposed of in the ordinary and customary manner of trash and garbage disposal. All garbage and refuse disposal shall be made in accordance with this Lease and with directions as may be issued, from time to time, by Landlord.

 15. Tenant shall comply with all safety, fire protection and evacuation procedures and regulations established by Landlord or any governmental agency.

 16. Tenant assumes any and all responsibility for protecting its Premises from theft, robbery and pilferage, which includes keeping doors locked and other means of entry to the Premises closed.

 17. Landlord may waive any one or more of these Rules and Regulations for the benefit of Tenant, but no such waiver by Landlord shall be construed as a waiver of such Rules and Regulations in favor of Tenant.

 18. These Rules and Regulations are in addition to, and shall not be construed to in any way modify or amend, in whole or in part, the terms, covenants, agreements and conditions of Tenant's lease of its Premises in the Building.

 19. Landlord reserves the right to make such other and reasonable Rules and Regulations as, in its judgment, may from time to time be needed for safety and security, for care and cleanliness of the Building and for the preservation of good order therein. Tenant agrees to abide by all such Rules and Regulations hereinabove stated and any additional rules and regulations that are adopted.

 20. Tenant shall be responsible for the observance of all of the foregoing rules by Tenant's employees, agents, clients, customers, invitees and guests.

 21. No smoking is permitted in the Premises.

 25

 1

 Exhibit E to Attachment 1 to DPR Golden Gardens Lease ORD

```
