

********

**Council Bill Number: 115667**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122191**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to taxation for transportation purposes; imposing an employee hours tax; adding a new Chapter 5.37 to Title 5 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and amending SMC sections 5.30.010, 5.55.010, 5.55.040 A, 5.55.060 A, 5.55.150 E, 5.55.165, 5.55.220 A and B, 5.55.230 A, and 3.02.125 A in connection therewith.

**Status:** Passed as Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 7, 2006
   
**Vote:** 5-4 (No: Clark, Della, Rasmussen, Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 15, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 15, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Local Transportation Funding Package

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 24, 2006
   
**Committee:** Committee of the Whole
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** ELECTIONS, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, TAXES

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CB 115667, 115668, 115669, 115670

**Fiscal Note:**115667

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to taxation for transportation purposes; imposing an employee hours tax; adding a new Chapter 5.37 to Title 5 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and amending SMC sections 5.30.010, 5.55.010, 5.55.040 A, 5.55.060 A, 5.55.150 E, 5.55.165, 5.55.220 A and B, 5.55.230 A, and 3.02.125 A in connection therewith.

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle (the "City") owns and operates a transportation system that is critical to the safety, social, and economic well-being of its residents and visitors; and

 WHEREAS, the City is responsible for more than 1,500 lane-miles of arterial streets, 150 bridges, 22 miles of retaining walls, 480 stairways, 1,000 signalized intersections, 120,000 signs, 2,000 miles of sidewalks, and 30,000 street trees, representing an economic asset of more than $8 billion; and

 WHEREAS, the majority of Seattle's bridges were built to last 60 years, with 55 years being the average age of the bridges, and with 46% in poor or fair condition; and

 WHEREAS, eight of the City's bridges have weight restrictions because they no longer meet structural standards, creating safety concerns for users and limited route choices for freight haulers and buses; and

 WHEREAS, according to national standards, 29 percent of the City's arterial streets are in either poor or fair condition; and

 WHEREAS, two years ago, the backlog of maintenance work was estimated to be $500 million and has since become larger; and

 WHEREAS, the Washington State Supreme Court in 1995 declared the City's residential street utility charge unconstitutional, reducing City revenue for transportation projects by $13 million per year; and

 WHEREAS, voters statewide approved Initiative 776 in 2002, which eliminated the Vehicle License Fee that provided $5 million per year to the City for transportation purposes; and

 WHEREAS, state-shared gas tax revenues for Seattle do not keep up with inflation due to annexations and incorporations; and

 WHEREAS, addressing the deteriorating condition of Seattle's transportation infrastructure will require a substantial annual dedication of resources beyond those currently available; and

 WHEREAS, in 2005, the City adopted Resolution 30790 approving the Transportation Strategic Plan with key themes of improving safety, preserving and maintaining transportation infrastructure, and providing mobility and access through transportation choices; and

 WHEREAS, the Alaskan Way Viaduct is scheduled to be closed to traffic within the next five years, and closing it will put an added stress on the various alternative routes into and through the city; and

 WHEREAS, a Citizens Advisory Panel has reviewed the funding required to address the identified maintenance backlog and recommended a variety of additional improvements to provide a more efficient and safer flow of pedestrians, bicycles, vehicles, transit services, and freight movement within and throughout Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, in April and May of 2006, the City sponsored five public information meetings with roundtable discussion groups in order to garner public input on transportation issues; and

 WHEREAS, there are numerous commuters who work in the city and use Seattle's transportation infrastructure; and

 WHEREAS, the City has developed a funding proposal to address the deteriorating condition of Seattle's transportation infrastructure and provide targeted system enhancements, which combines revenues generated from property taxes, a commercial parking tax, and a business transportation tax; and

 WHEREAS, the imposition of an employee hours tax (also referred to as "The Business Transportation Tax") will provide an equitable means of generating revenue to ensure that those who regularly utilize the City's transportation system are supporting that system; and

 WHEREAS, the proceeds of the employee hours tax herein imposed shall be used strictly for transportation purposes; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Effective July 1, 2007, a new Chapter 5.37, "Employee Hours Tax," is added to Title 5 of the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 5.37.010 Administrative Provisions.

 All of the provisions contained in Chapter 5.55 of the Seattle Municipal Code shall have full force and application with respect to taxes imposed under the provisions of this chapter except as may be expressly stated to the contrary herein.

 5.37.020 Definitions.

 The definitions contained in Chapter 5.30 of the Seattle Municipal Code shall be fully applicable to this chapter except as may be expressly stated to the contrary herein. The following additional definitions shall apply throughout this Chapter:

 A. "Business" means any person engaging in business as defined in SMC 5.30.030.

 B. "Employee" means any person who performs work, labor, or services for a business and is on the business' payroll, and who performs any part of their duties within the City of Seattle. For purposes of this chapter, the term "employee" also includes all full- time, part-time, and temporary employees or workers on the business' payroll. A business' payroll includes the payroll of any related company that acts as a paymaster for the related entities. A sole proprietor or partner shall not be considered to be an employee.

 C. "Fulltime employee" means an employee who works at least one thousand nine hundred twenty (1,920) hours in a calendar year.

 D. "Part-time employee" means an employee who works less than one thousand nine hundred twenty (1,920) hours in a calendar year.

 5.37.030 Tax Imposed-Measure of the Tax.

 A. An employee hours tax is hereby levied upon and shall be collected from every person for the act or privilege of engaging in business activities within the City. The tax shall be measured by the number of employee hours of work conducted within the City during the calendar year, except that for the year 2007, the tax shall be measured by the number of employee hours of work conducted within the City during the period July 1, 2007, through December 31, 2007.

 B. The amount of the tax shall be equal to the employee hours worked within the City during the calendar year multiplied by the rate of $0.01302, except that for the year 2007, the amount of the tax shall be equal to the employee hours worked within the City during the period July 1, 2007, through December 31, 2007, multiplied by the rate of $0.01302. The employee hours worked excludes vacation and sick leave hours. If an employee works within and outside the City, it will be the responsibility of the business to calculate and report the number of hours worked within the City.

 C. Alternative Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Calculation Method. A business may choose to calculate its annual employee hours tax based on the number of its FTE employees as follows:

 1. Calculation of FTEs Post-2007. For all periods following December 31, 2007, the number of FTE employees is (i) the number of a business' full time employees for the calendar year, plus (ii) the sum of the hours worked by part-time employees in the calendar year divided by 1,920 hours.

 2. Calculation of FTEs for 2007. For the year 2007, the number of FTE employees is (i) the number of a business' employees who work at least nine hundred sixty (960) hours during the period July 1, 2007, through December 31, 2007, plus (ii) the sum of the hours worked by all other employees divided by 960 hours.

 3. Tax. Any fractional FTE remaining after the determination of FTE employees under SMC 5.37.030C1 and 5.37.030C2 shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number. Once the number of FTE employees is thus determined, that number shall be multiplied by $25 to determine the annual employee hours tax. Once the FTE alternative method is used, it must be used for all future reporting periods, unless a change is approved by the Director.

 D. Businesses with more than one place of business must use the same method of calculation for all places of business.

 E. The tax applies to employee hours worked or FTEs inside the City regardless of whether the place of business is located within or outside of the City.

 F. Temporary employment agencies that supply temporary employees to businesses engaging in business activities within the City, and pay the temporary employee's salary, shall report and pay the tax on all such temporary employees. Businesses engaging temporary employees who are on the business' payroll shall report and pay the tax on the employee hours of such temporary employees, whether or not they are from an employment agency.

 G. All businesses reporting an employee hours tax due under SMC 5.37.040 shall be entitled to a credit of up to $50.00 from the amount of the tax due. No credit shall be more than the amount of tax owed for each year.

 5.37.040 Employee hour tax -When due.

 The employee hour tax shall be reported and paid on an annual calendar year basis, at the same time as the fourth quarter or annual tax return is due in accordance with SMC 5.55.040, and on forms as prescribed by the Director. Persons discontinuing their business activities in Seattle shall report and pay the tax at the same time as their final business tax return is due.

 5.37.050 Exemptions and deductions from the employee hour tax.

 A. The following are exempt from the employee hour tax:

 1. Any business having annual worldwide gross income of $50,000 or less. 2. Businesses that are preempted from taxation by cities pursuant to federal or state statutes or regulations, including, but not limited to, the following:

 (a) Insurance businesses and their agents as defined by RCW 48.01.050 and 48.17.010, respectively, and whose total revenue is exempt from the business license tax per SMC 5.45.

 (b) Businesses that only sell, manufacture, or distribute motor vehicle fuel as defined in RCW 82.36.010 and exempted under RCW 82.36.440.

 (c) Businesses that only distribute or sell liquor as defined in RCW 66.04.010 and exempted in RCW 66.08.120.

 (d) Federal and state government agencies and subdivisions (except the City of Seattle).

 3. Domestic servants or gardeners, maintenance or repair persons employed in or around a private home.

 4. Volunteers and persons providing services in return for only aid or sustenance from religious or charitable organizations.

 B. Non Single-Occupancy-Vehicle Deduction. When computing the number of employees or employee hours, a business may deduct the number of employees, or their hours, for those employees who do not regularly commute to a workplace in the City using a motor vehicle occupied by a single person. The Director shall adopt rules to define eligibility for this non single-occupancy-vehicle deduction.

 5.37.060 Tax In Addition To Other License Fees Or Taxes.

 The tax imposed herein shall be in addition to any license fee or tax imposed or levied under any other law, statute or ordinance whether imposed or levied by the City, State or other governmental entity or political subdivision.

 5.37.070 Use Of Revenues.

 The proceeds of the tax imposed herein and any interest or other earnings from their deposit or investment shall be used for transportation purposes. None of the proceeds of the tax imposed herein shall be used to fund the major repair or replacement, including but not limited to replacement with a waterfront tunnel, of the Alaskan Way Viaduct or the seawall located to the west of Alaskan Way, unless appropriated for those purposes by ordinance. To the extent permitted by applicable law the City may issue bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness payable wholly or in part from the additional taxes authorized under this ordinance, and may pledge and may apply such taxes to the payment of principal of, interest on, and premium (if any) on such bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness and to the payment of costs associated with them.

 5.37.080 Receipts To Transportation Fund.

 All receipts from the employee hour tax shall be placed in and segregated within the Transportation Fund. These receipts may be temporarily deposited or invested in such manner as may be lawful for the investment of City money and interest and other earnings shall be deposited in the Transportation Fund.

 Section 2. Effective July 1, 2007, Section 5.30.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.30.010 Definition provisions.

 The definitions contained in this chapter shall apply to the following chapters of the Seattle Municipal Code: Chapters 5.32 (Amusement Devices), 5.37 (Employee Hour Taxes), 5.40 (Admission Taxes), 5.45 (Business and Occupation Taxes), 5.48 (Utility Taxes), 5.52 (Gambling Taxes), and 5.55 (Administrative Provisions) unless expressly provided for otherwise therein, and shall also apply to other chapters and sections of the Seattle Municipal Code in the manner and to the extent as expressly indicated in each chapter or section. Words in the singular number shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Words in one gender shall include both genders.

 Section 3. Effective July 1, 2007, Section 5.55.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.55.010 Application of chapter stated.

 Unless expressly stated to the contrary in each chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall apply with respect to the licenses and taxes imposed under this chapter and SMC Chapters 5.32 (Amusement Devices), 5.37 (Employee Hour Taxes), 5.40 (Admission Taxes), 5.45 (Business and Occupation Tax), 5.48 (Utility Tax), and 5.52 (Gambling Tax), and under other titles, chapters, and sections in such manner and to such extent as indicated in each such title, chapter or section.

 Section 4. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsection 5.55.040 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 A. Other than any annual license fee or registration fee assessed under this chapter, the tax imposed by SMC Chapters 5.32 (Amusement Devices), 5.37 (Employee Hour Taxes), 5.40 (Admission Taxes), 5.45 (Business and Occupation Tax), 5.48 (Utility Tax), and 5.52 (Gambling Tax), shall be due and payable in quarterly installments. At the Director's discretion, businesses may be assigned to a monthly or annual reporting period depending on the tax amount owing or type of tax. Taxes imposed by SMC Section 5.52.030(A)(2) and (B)(2) for punchboards and pulltabs shall be due and payable in monthly installments. Tax payments are due on or before the last day of the next month following the end of the assigned reporting period covered by the return.

 Section 5. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsection 5.55.060 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 A. Every person liable for any fee or tax imposed by this chapter, SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.37, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, and 5.52 shall keep and preserve, for a period of five (5) years after filing a tax return, such records as may be necessary to determine the amount of any fee or tax for which the person may be liable; which records shall include copies of all federal income tax and state tax returns and reports made by the person. All places of business, books, records, papers, invoices, ticket stubs, vendor lists, gambling games and payout information, inventories, stocks of merchandise, and other data, including federal income tax and state tax returns, and reports needed to determine the accuracy of any taxes due, shall be open for inspection or examination at any time by the Director or a duly authorized agent. Every person's business premises shall be open for inspection or examination by the Director or a duly authorized agent.

 Section 6. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsection 5.55.150 E of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 E. The Hearing Examiner shall ascertain the correct amount of the tax, fee, interest, or penalty due either by affirming, reversing, or modifying an action of the Director. Reversal or modification is proper if the Director's assessment or refund denial violates the terms of this chapter, or SMC Chapters 5.30, 5.32, 5.37, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, or 5.52.

 Section 7. Effective July 1, 2007, Section 5.55.165 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.55.165 Director of Finance to make rules.

 The Director of Finance shall have the power and it shall be his or her duty, from time to time, to adopt, publish and enforce rules and regulations not inconsistent with this chapter, SMC Chapters 5.30, 5.32, 5.37, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, 5.52 or with law for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of such chapters, and it shall be unlawful to violate or fail to comply with, any such rule or regulation.

 Section 8. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsections 5.55.220 A and B of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 A. It shall be unlawful for any person liable for amounts due under this chapter, or SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.37, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, and 5.52:

 1. To violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter, SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.37, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, and 5.52, or any lawful rule or regulation adopted by the Director;

 2. To make or manufacture any license required by this chapter except upon authority of the Director;

 3. To make any false statement on any license application or tax return;

 4. To aid or abet any person in any attempt to evade payment of a license fee or tax;

 5. To refuse admission to the Director to inspect the premises and/or records as required by this Chapter, or to otherwise interfere with the Director in the performance of duties imposed by SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.37, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, and 5.52;

 6. To fail to appear or testify in response to a subpoena issued pursuant to SMC 3.02.120 in any proceeding to determine compliance with this chapter and SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.37, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48 and 5.52;

 7. To testify falsely in any investigation, audit, or proceeding conducted pursuant to this chapter; or

 8. In any manner, to hinder or delay the City or any of its officers in carrying out the provisions of this chapter or SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.37, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, and 5.52.

 B. Each violation of or failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter, or SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.37, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, or 5.52 shall constitute a separate offense. Any person who commits an act defined in subsection A of this section is guilty of a gross misdemeanor, punishable in accordance with SMC 12A.02.070. The provisions of chapters 12A.02 and 12A.04 of the Seattle Municipal Code apply to the offenses defined in subsection A of this section except that liability is absolute and none of the mental states described in SMC 12A.04.030 need be proved.

 Section 9. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsection 5.55.230 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 A. The Director, or his or her designee, shall have the power and authority to suspend or revoke any business license or amusement device license issued under the provisions of this chapter. The Director, or his or her designee, shall notify such licensee in writing by certified mail of the suspension or revocation of his or her license and the grounds therefor. Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked based on one or more of the following grounds:

 1. The license was procured by fraud or false representation of fact.

 2. The licensee has failed to comply with any provisions of this chapter.

 3. The licensee has failed to comply with any provisions of SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.37, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48 or 5.52.

 4. The licensee is in default in any payment of any license fee or tax under Title 5 or Title 6.

 Section 10. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsection 3.02.125 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 3.02.125 Hearing Examiner Filing Fees.

 A. Filing fees for hearings before the City Hearing Examiner are as follows:

 Basis for Hearing Fee

 Admission Tax Deficiency (Ch. 5.40) $ 50

 Admission Tax Revocation of Exemption (See No fee 5.50.085)

 Ballard Avenue Landmark District (Ch. 25.16) 50

 Business License Tax Deficiency (Ch. 5.45) 50

 Cable Television Ordinance (Ch. 21.60) No fee

 Columbia City Landmark District (Ch. 25.20) 50

 Design Decision in Multiple Residence -- Mixed 50 Density Zone (Ch. 24.38)

Employee Hours Tax(Ch. 5.37)50

 Fair Employment Practices Ordinance (Ch. 14.04) No fee

 Floating Home Moorages (Ch. 7.20) 50 /petitioner; maximum fee 150

 Gambling Tax Deficiency (Ch. 5.52) 50

 Grading Ordinance (Title 22, Subtitle VIII) 50

 Harvard/Belmont Landmark District (Ch. 25.22) 50

 Housing Code (Ch. 22.206) 50

 Land Use Code Enforcement (Ch. 23.90) 50

 Landmark Preservation Controls and Incentives No fee (Sec. 25.12.530)

 Landmarks Preservation (Sec. 25.12.740 and Sec. 50 25.12.835)

 License Code (Title 6, Subtitle I) 50

 Master Use Permit (Ch. 23.76) 50

 Noise Ordinance (Ch. 25.08) 50

 Open Housing Ordinance (Ch. 14.08) No fee

 Pike Place Market Historical District ( 50 (Ch. 25.24)

 Pioneer Square Minimum Maintenance Ordinance 50 (Ch. 25.28, Subchapter II)

 Planned Unit Development (Ch. 24.66) 50

 Plumbing Code (Ch. 20.16, Uniform Plumbing 50 Code, Ord. 116594)

 Property Tax Exemption, Cancellation of 50 Exemption (Ch. 5.72)

 Radiofrequency Radiation Ordinance (Ch. 25.10) 50

 Relocation Assistance (Ch. 20.84) No fee

 Refund Anticipation Loan (Ch. 7.26) 5

 Seizure of Property -- Controlled Substances No fee (RCW 69.50.505(e))

 Special Review Districts (Ch. 23.66) 50

 State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) (when not 50 a Master Use Permit component)(Ch. 25.04)

 Utility tax (Ch. 5.48) 50

 Zoning Map Amendments (Rezones) (Ch. 23.34) No fee

 Zoning Rulings and Interpretations (Ch. 23.88) 50

 Section 11. Severability. If any part, provision or section of this ordinance is held to be void or unconstitutional, all other parts, provisions, and sections of this ordinance not expressly so held to be void or unconstitutional shall continue in full force and effect.

 Section 12. If the amendments to Seattle Municipal Code chapters 3.02, 5.30, and 5.55 submitted by Council Bill No. 115668 are also enacted into law, then both the amendments to Seattle Municipal Code chapters 3.02, 5.30, and 5.55 in Council Bill No. 115668 and the amendments to Seattle Municipal Code chapters 3.02, 5.30, and 5.55 in this ordinance shall be given effect.

 Section 13. The Director will develop and implement to the extent practical practices to reduce the taxpayers' administrative burden of burden of keeping records for reporting and paying the employee hours tax.

 Section 14. Pursuant to RCW 35.21.706, this ordinance is subject to the referendum procedure specified in that state law. A referendum petition may be filed within seven days of the passage of the ordinance with the filing officer of the City, which is hereby designated to be the City Clerk, located on the third floor of City Hall, 600 Fourth Avenue, Seattle, Washington. Within ten days of filing the petition, the City Clerk shall confer with the petitioner concerning the form and style of the petition, issue the petition an identification number, and secure an accurate, concise, and positive ballot title from the City Attorney. The petitioner shall then have thirty days in which to secure the signatures of not less than fifteen percent of the registered voters of the City , as of the last municipal general election, upon petition forms which contain the ballot title and the full text of the measure to be referred. Signed petition forms that are submitted timely to the City Clerk shall be transmitted to the King County Director of Records and Elections who shall verify the sufficiency of the signatures on the petition and

 report to the City Clerk. If sufficient valid signatures are properly submitted, the City Clerk shall so inform the City Council, which shall submit the referendum measure to the voters at a special election to be held on the next City election date, as provided in RCW 29A.04.330, that occurs not less than forty-five days after the county's report of sufficiency is received by the City Clerk, unless a general election will occur within ninety days of receipt of that report, in which event the proposed ordinance will be submitted at the general election. State law, RCW 35.21.706, provides that the referendum procedure in this section is exclusive and that this ordinance is not subject to any other referendum or initiative process.

 Section 15. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 20__, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 20__. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 20__. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 20__. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 ta 08/07/06 (Ver. 16)

```
