

********

**Council Bill Number: 115609**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122153**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the purchase of 108.06 acres of real property, commonly called the Boxley Creek Property, adjacent to the Cedar River Municipal Watershed; authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to execute, implement and deliver a purchase and sale agreement with the Washington State Department of Natural Resources and other related documents; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 10, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 20, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 20, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 19, 2006
   
**Committee:** Environment, Emergency Management and Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** CEDAR-RIVER-WATERSHED, LAND-ACQUISITION, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, DEPARTMENT-OF-HOMELAND-SECURITY

**Fiscal Note:**115609

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the purchase of 108.06 acres of real property, commonly called the Boxley Creek Property, adjacent to the Cedar River Municipal Watershed; authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to execute, implement and deliver a purchase and sale agreement with the Washington State Department of Natural Resources and other related documents; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 WHEREAS, the City, through its Seattle Public Utilities ("SPU"), owns and manages the more than 92,000-acre Cedar River Municipal Watershed ("Watershed"), which is a source of unfiltered drinking water for Seattle and surrounding communities and home to many species of fish and wildlife; and

 WHEREAS, the State of Washington, through its Department of Natural Resources ("WDNR"), presently owns and manages 108.06 acres of real property commonly referred to as the Boxley Creek Property ("Property") contiguous with Watershed lands in Section 35, Township 23 North, Range 8 East, W.M.; and

 WHEREAS, SPU's critical management objectives for municipal watersheds include: (1) avoiding future risk and costs associated with illegal trespass in and around the Cedar Watershed; (2) reducing risk and liability costs associated with the Cedar Moraine; (3) providing options for future SPU activity on the Moraine; and (4) maintaining good relations with WDNR; and

 WHEREAS, SPU has determined that enhanced control of the use, monitoring, and security of this Property offers multiple benefits to SPU and the Cedar River municipal water supply, and that analyses of risk and financial, social, and environmental costs and benefits indicate fee-simple ownership is the most prudent action for achieving these management objectives; and

 WHEREAS, WDNR desires to sell the Property; and

 WHEREAS, representatives of the City and WDNR have prepared a Purchase and Sale Agreement that is satisfactory to both parties, setting forth such terms in detail and including various documents required to implement the purchase and sale pursuant to the agreed terms; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Seattle Public Utilities is hereby authorized to purchase 108.06 acres of real property commonly called the Boxley Creek Property and legally described in the Purchase and Sale Agreement attached hereto as Attachment 1, for $345,000.00, and other costs required for the City to obtain title and rights to the Property, in the amount of approximately $76,000.00. The appropriation shall be paid out of the Water Fund under the existing CIP (Cedar River Watershed Boundary Land Acquisition C198008).

 Section 2. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his designee (the "Director"), is authorized to execute, implement and deliver the Purchase and Sale Agreement, substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1, and execute, implement and deliver other related documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the intent of this ordinance.

 Section 3. The Director is authorized to accept and record a quit claim deed to the Property. The Property thus acquired shall be placed under the jurisdiction of Seattle Public Utilities.

 Section 4. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Real Estate, and Exhibits A, B, and C thereto:

 Exhibit A: Boxley Creek Legal Description

 Exhibit B: Quit Claim Deed

 Exhibit C: Notice of Continuing Forest Land Obligation

 version #3

 ATTACHMENT 1

 STATE OF WASHINGTON

 DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES

 DOUG SUTHERLAND, COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC LANDS

 AGREEMENT FOR PURCHASE AND SALE

 OF REAL ESTATE

 THIS AGREEMENT is made as of the ______ day of __________________, 2006, by and between the STATE OF WASHINGTON, acting by and through the Department of Natural Resources ("State") and CITY OF SEATTLE, through its SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITIES Department, ("Purchaser").

 WHEREAS, State is the owner of certain real property known as Boxley Creek located in King County, Washington; and

 WHEREAS, State desires to convey the real property to Purchaser, and Purchaser desires to acquire the real property;

 NOW, THEREFORE, in exchange for the mutual promises and covenants herein contained, and other good and valuable consideration, the mutual receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged by Purchaser and State, it is agreed as follows:

 SECTION 1 - PROPERTY

 1.1 Property to be Sold. State shall sell and convey to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall purchase and accept from State, all subject to the terms, conditions and contingencies of this Agreement, that certain real property located in King County, Washington, the legal description of which is set forth on Exhibit A, together with all easements, rights-of-way and other rights appurtenant to said real property. The foregoing property and rights and interests described above are collectively referred to herein as the "Property."

 1.2 Reservation. This sale is subject to the reservation of oils, gases, and minerals and easements for removal of valuable materials as prescribed in RCW 79.11.210 and in RCW 79.36.370.

 SECTION 2 - PAYMENT

 2.1 Purchase Price. Purchaser shall pay State the Purchase Price of Three Hundred Forty Five Thousand U.S. Dollars ($345,000.00) and other charges owed by Purchaser described in Section 11(b) below.

 2.2 No Interest. Any deposits or advance payments made by Purchaser under this Agreement shall be held by the state treasurer without interest.

 SECTION 3 - CLOSING

 3.1 Date. The "Closing Date," "Closing," or "Date of Closing," as those terms are used herein, shall mean the date upon which all monies are paid and all documents are recorded. Closing shall be as soon as practical for State to issue a quitclaim deed from the Governor's Office upon confirmation that the entire Purchase Price shall have been paid to the State Treasury and all terms, conditions and contingencies have been met. While it generally takes thirty (30) days or less to obtain the Governor's signature and the Secretary of State's attestation pursuant to RCW 79.02.270, no specific time limitation can be agreed upon due to the uncertain availability of those officials caused by the demands of their other public duties. The State will commit in good faith to procure the fully executed quitclaim deed as soon as it is feasible after all prerequisite actions have been taken and conditions satisfied.

 3.2 Escrow. Upon mutual execution of this Agreement, the Parties shall execute joint instructions to Chicago Title and Escrow Company ("Escrow Company") to open an escrow with respect to the Property. The provisions of this Agreement shall constitute joint instructions to the Escrow Company; provided, that each Party shall execute such additional instructions as requested by the Escrow Company and may execute such additional instructions as are desired by that Party, so long as such additional instructions are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement. Upon execution by both parties of this Agreement, the Purchaser shall deposit into Escrow the full amount of the Purchase Price as full payment for the Property ( "Purchase Price"). The disbursement of funds by the Escrow Company shall all be subject to all terms and conditions of this Agreement. Purchaser acknowledges that the Purchase Price must be paid to the State Treasury as a condition of obtaining a deed from the State and hereby authorizes the Escrow Company to pay the Purchase Price to the State Treasury in advance of receipt of the deed from State. Purchaser shall pay the entire escrow fee.

 SECTION 4 - CONVEYANCE, TITLE INSURANCE AND POSSESSION

 4.1 Possession. Purchaser shall be entitled to possession of the Property on the Closing Date.

 4.2 Form of Deed. State shall convey title to the Property to Purchaser by quitclaim deed executed by the Governor of the State of Washington. Said deed shall be in the same form and format as Exhibit B, attached hereto and incorporated by this reference herein.

 4.3 Title Insurance. Purchaser shall obtain a title insurance commitment (the "Commitment") issued by the Chicago Title and Escrow Company (the "Title Company"), showing marketable title to the Property vested in State. At Closing, Purchaser shall receive and pay for an owner's Standard ALTA (1970 with 1984 revisions) policy of title insurance, dated as of the Closing date and insuring Purchaser in the amount of the Purchase Price against loss or damage by reason of defect in the title to the Property subject only to the printed exclusions appearing in the policy form and any permitted exceptions agreed to in writing by Purchaser..

 SECTION 5 - STATE'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

 The State hereby makes the following representations and warranties, each of which is based solely on and limited by the actual knowledge of Department of Natural Resources employees or agents, which shall also be deemed made by the State to Purchaser as of the Closing Date and which shall survive closing:

 A. There are no Parties or trespassers in possession or which have a right to possess all or any portion of the Property, and there are no leases or licenses affecting the Property, other than those of record identified in the policy of title insurance dated as of Closing. The State has not had a survey prepared for the Property, so is unaware of any encroachments or other boundary issues that a survey might reveal.

 B. The State has complied in all material respects with all applicable laws, ordinances, regulations, statutes and rules relating to the Property, and every part thereof, and has not received nor is aware of any notification from any governmental authority having jurisdiction, requiring any work to be done on the Property or advising of any condition which would render the Property unusable or affect the usability of the Property or any part thereof for the purposes of Purchaser known to the State.

 C. The State shall not enter into any leases, trust deeds, mortgages, restrictions, encumbrances, liens, licenses or other instruments or agreements affecting the Property (each, an "Instrument") without the prior written consent of Purchaser from and after the date of this Agreement. Purchaser shall not assume nor be deemed to have assumed any obligation or liability under any such Instrument without its express written agreement to do so.

 D. Neither the execution nor delivery of this Agreement, nor consummation of the transaction contemplated hereby, nor fulfillment of nor compliance with the terms and conditions hereof contravenes any provision of any law, statute, rule or ordinance to which the State or the Property is subject, or conflicts with or results in a breach of or constitutes a default under any of the terms or conditions of any agreement or instrument to which the State is a party or by which it is bound, or constitutes a default under any of the foregoing and there exists no default in respect to any obligation pertaining to the Property.

 E. No labor, materials or services have been furnished in, on or about the Property or any part thereof as a result of which any mechanics', laborers', or material persons' liens or claims might arise.

 F. Purchaser shall not be required, by virtue of the purchase of the Property, to satisfy any obligation of the State arising prior to closing.

 G. The State is not in default and there has occurred no uncured event which, with notice, the passage of time or both would be a default under any contract, transaction, agreement, lease, encumbrance or other instrument pertaining to the Property.

 H. There is no litigation either pending or, to the best of the State's knowledge, threatened, which could now or in the future in any way constitute a lien, claim or obligation of any kind on the Property, affect the use, ownership or operation of the Property or otherwise adversely affect the Property. For purposes of this subsection, "litigation" includes any lawsuit, action, administrative proceeding, governmental investigation and all other proceedings before any tribunal having jurisdiction over the Property. This representation does not include any litigation that does not specifically identify the Property but may have collateral impacts by virtue of any ruling generally affecting State landownership duties or obligations.

 I. To the best of the State's knowledge, the Property does not contain and has not been used in any manner for the storage of any hazardous or toxic waste, materials, discharge, deposit, dumping, or contamination, whether of soil, groundwater or otherwise, and no activity on the Property has produced any such substances.

 J. To the best of the State's knowledge, the Property does not contain underground tanks of any type, or any materials containing or producing any polychlorinated biphenyls or any asbestos.

 K. During the State's ownership, the Property has not been used in any manner that would lead to the release of any hazardous or toxic substance in or on the property, except in accordance with all laws and regulations.

 L. To the best of the State's knowledge, there are no surface or subsurface conditions with respect to the Property which constitute or with the passage of time may constitute a public or private nuisance, with the exception of any conditions that may exist by virtue of Purchaser's activities or facilities on nearby property, specifically including the Masonry Pool and Dam.

 M. To the best of the State's knowledge, there are no easements, tenancies or rights of way which have been acquired by prescription or which are otherwise not of record with respect to the Property. There are no disputes, claims or actions involving the location of any fence or other monumentation of the Property's boundary nor any claims or actions involving the location of any fence or boundary.

 The discovery by Purchaser prior to the Closing Date of any state of facts with respect to the Property which are reasonably determined to be materially inconsistent with any of the foregoing representations and warranties shall constitute the failure of a condition precedent to the Purchaser's obligations under this Agreement. In such event, Purchaser shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by written notice, provided that such notice is delivered to the State within forty-five (45) days of the date of this Agreement. Failure to give such notice within the specified time shall constitute a waiver of such right. Nothing in this Section 5 shall alter or affect any obligations of the State or Purchaser pursuant to Section 16 and Exhibit C, or the laws referenced therein.

 SECTION 6 - RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS AFTER PRELIMINARY AGREEMENT

 6.1 Inspection. Following the date of this Agreement, State shall permit Purchaser and/or its designated agents to enter upon the Property at all reasonable times for the purpose of investigating the Property, and the physical condition thereof, including without limitation, the condition of improvements, if any, located upon the Property. Purchaser shall not conduct any invasive testing of the soils without prior written consent of State, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.

 6.2 Indemnification and Hold Harmless Regarding Purchaser's Inspection. Purchaser agrees to indemnify, defend with counsel acceptable to State, and release State, its officers, agents, and employees from any and all claims, liens or costs, damages, fees and expenses (including but not limited to attorney and paralegal fees, costs and expenses, including costs and fees incurred on appeal and in bankruptcy, as well as consultant fees and costs) arising out of or relating to the actions of Purchaser and actions of Purchaser's agents or employees in exercising such rights of entry or inspections under this Agreement. Purchaser will be responsible for the payment of any fines or penalties charged against State or Purchaser, or for any employees or equipment while under Purchaser's control, employment, or direction, related to activities under Sections 6.1 above and 6.3 below.

 6.3 Reports and Studies.

 (a) Subject to the conditions set forth above, Purchaser shall have the right to prepare, or have prepared title reports, engineering studies, feasibility studies, surveys, resurveys or survey updates, environmental assessments and reviews, studies or investigations all of which are also collectively referred to as the "Purchaser's Studies" with respect to the Property. All information discovered by Purchaser through Purchaser's Studies shall be deemed to have been disclosed by State.

 (b) Further, with respect to Purchaser's Studies, Purchaser agrees that it is not acting as the agent of State, and that Purchaser's contractors, architects, engineers, or other consultants are solely employed by Purchaser to perform the studies for the benefit of Purchaser. Purchaser further shall provide written notice to each contractor, architect, engineer and other consultant of these facts, which notice shall also instruct these parties not to file any liens or notices against the Property prior to Closing. Purchaser shall ask each party to acknowledge receipt of the notice. Purchaser shall supply State with a written list of each party to whom this notice was sent within ten (10) days of their issuance, as well as a copy of each notice as acknowledged by the party to whom it was given or sent.

 (c) In the event that Purchaser does not complete the purchase contemplated in this Agreement, the State may request copies of Purchaser's Studies at the State's sole cost and expense. The State shall have the right to examine Purchaser's Studies without charge.

 (d) Purchaser shall have the right to examine studies and reports, if any, prepared by State or its consultants, excluding appraisal reports (all of which are collectively referred to as "State's Studies"). Purchaser may request copies of the State's Studies at Purchaser's sole cost and expense. Purchaser shall have the right to examine State's Studies without charge.

 6.4 Condition of Purchase. Purchaser's obligation to purchase the Property as provided herein shall be subject to all of Purchaser's Studies being satisfactory to Purchaser, in its sole discretion. The foregoing condition is for the sole benefit of Purchaser. If the results of any of Purchaser's Studies do not meet Purchaser's satisfaction, in Purchaser's sole discretion, then Purchaser may terminate this Agreement without further obligation, and Purchaser shall be refunded any deposit. Purchaser shall give State written notice of Purchaser's decision to terminate within forty-five (45) days of the date of this Agreement. In the event Purchaser fails to give State such written notice, this termination right shall expire.

 SECTION 7 - DESTRUCTION OR CONDEMNATION

 State shall bear the risk of loss until Closing. If on or before the Closing Date either the Property is materially damaged, or condemnation proceedings are commenced with respect to the Property, Purchaser shall elect either to terminate this Agreement or to purchase the Property. Purchaser must give written notice of such election to State within fifteen (15) days of Purchaser's knowledge of such damage or condemnation. Failure to give State notice of Purchaser's election to terminate shall be deemed an election to purchase. If Purchaser elects to terminate this Agreement, any deposit shall be returned to Purchaser, and all rights and obligations of Purchaser and State shall terminate. If Purchaser elects to purchase the Property, Purchaser shall be entitled to the insurance proceeds, if any, or to the condemnation award either of which shall be without adjustment to the Purchase Price. Damage shall be deemed "material" if it cannot be repaired or replaced within ninety (90) days or it represents more than ten percent (10%) of the Purchase Price.

 SECTION 8 - CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY

 8.1 As Is. Except for the specific representations and warranties stated in Section 5, the Property is sold "AS IS, WHERE IS." Purchaser is encouraged to examine the Property to ascertain the condition of the Property, including but not limited to the existence of encumbrances, encroachments, etc. Except for the specific representations and warranties stated in Section 5, the State does not make and specifically disclaims any other warranties, express or implied, including any warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose about the Property, including but not limited to any improvements located thereon. No employee or agent of State is authorized to make any warranty or representation to the contrary.

 SECTION 9 - PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY

 The State agrees that the Property shall remain as it is now until Closing, and that the State shall refrain from and shall not actively permit any use of the Property for any purpose or in any manner which would adversely affect Purchaser's intended use of the Property.

 SECTION 10 - CONTINGENCIES TO CLOSING

 10.1 State's obligations are contingent upon the following:

 (a) approval of the sale by the Board of Natural Resources which shall be made at their sole discretion;

 (b) the legal documents shall be in a form acceptable to State; and

 (c) performance prior to or at Closing of all other acts and payments required of Purchaser under this Agreement.

 10.2 Purchaser's obligations are contingent upon the following:

 (a) approval of the purchase by the Seattle City Council by ordinance which shall be made at their sole discretion;

 (b) the legal documents shall be in a form acceptable to Purchaser; and

 (c) State shall be in full compliance with this Agreement.

 10.3 In the event either the Board of Natural Resources, pursuant to Section 10.1(a), or the Seattle City Council, pursuant to Section 10.2(a), fails to approve this purchase and sale transaction within one-hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate and all purchase monies shall be returned to Purchaser. Each party agrees to provide notice to the other party by email within forty-eight (48) hours in the event their respective Board or Council fails to approve this purchase and sale transaction. The foregoing is the only notice required by this Agreement that may be given solely by email.

 SECTION 11 - CLOSING AND CLOSING COSTS

 Prior to or at Closing the parties shall do the following:

 11.1 State.

 (a) issue a duly executed quitclaim deed conveying title to the Property within a reasonable time after confirmation of receipt of the Purchase Price by the State Treasury;

 (b) sign a Real Estate Excise Tax Affidavit;

 (c) provide any other documents necessary to consummate this agreement; and

 (d) pay prorations to the extent required and determinable.

 11.2 Purchaser.

 (a) pay the Purchase Price into the State Treasury as set forth in Subsection 2.1;

 (b) sign a Real Estate Excise Tax Affidavit;

 (c) provide any other documents necessary to consummate this Agreement;

 (d) pay all sums and prorations to the extent required under this Agreement and determinable; and

 (e) pay the cost of recording the deed and the county processing fee for filing the Real Estate Excise Tax Affidavit.

 11.3 Prorations. All rents and other income, if any, and water, sewer, utility and maintenance charges and any other expenses with respect to the operation of the Property levied against the Property shall be prorated between Purchaser and State as of the Closing Date. To the extent information is then available, such prorations shall be calculated and paid as of Closing. Such prorations shall be adjusted and completed after the Closing Date, if necessary, as and when complete information becomes available, and State and Purchaser agree to cooperate and use their best efforts to complete such prorations not later than sixty (60) days after the Closing Date. No insurance proration shall be made.

 SECTION 12 - SURVIVAL

 The obligations not satisfied at Closing or intended to continue beyond Closing shall not be deemed to have merged in the deed.

 SECTION 13 - REAL ESTATE COMMISSION

 Purchaser shall pay any real estate commission payable in connection with this transaction. Any real estate agent or broker acting in this transaction shall be deemed to be the sole agent of Purchaser.

 SECTION 14 - NOTICES

 All notices required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given upon personal service or deposit in the United States first class mail, postage prepaid, and addressed as follows:

 To Purchaser:

 City of Seattle, Seattle Public Utilities

 Watershed Services Division

 Attn: Division Director

 19901 Cedar Falls Road SE

 North Bend, WA 98045

 Facsimile (206) 233-1527

 Phone: (206) 233-1510

 To State:

 Department of Natural Resources

 Asset Management & Protection Division

 Attn: Evert Challstedt

 PO Box 47014

 Olympia, WA 98504-7014

 Facsimile: (360) 902-1789

 Phone: (360) 902-1605

 Email: evert.challstedt@wadnr.gov

 The foregoing addresses may be changed by written notice.

 SECTION 15 - MISCELLANEOUS

 15.1 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties. No prior and contemporaneous negotiations, understandings and agreements, whether oral or written shall be deemed to exist or bind any of the parties hereto.

 15.2 Binding Nature; Assignment of Rights. All rights and obligations arising out of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the respective assigns, if any, of the parties hereto. However, this Agreement shall not be assignable by Purchaser without the prior written consent and acceptance by State, which shall be at State's sole and absolute discretion.

 15.3 Washington Law. This Agreement shall be construed, interpreted, and enforced pursuant to the laws of the state of Washington and venue shall be in King County. The terms of this Agreement shall be given their ordinary meaning and shall not be construed in favor of or against either party hereto.

 15.4 Time of the Essence. Time is of the essence in this Agreement. No waiver or consent to any breach or other default in the performance of any of the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same or any other term or condition hereof. In the event time for performance falls on a weekend or legal holiday designated by the United States or Washington State, performance shall be deemed to be timely rendered if so rendered on the next business day.

 15.5 Captions. The captions and section headings hereof are inserted for convenience purposes only and shall not be deemed to limit or expand the meaning of any section.

 15.6 Invalidity. If any provisions of this Agreement shall be invalid, void or illegal, it shall in no way affect, impair or invalidate any of the other provisions hereof.

 15.7 Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, any one of which shall be deemed an original.

 15.8 Date of Agreement. The date of this Agreement shall be the date on which the last party executes this Agreement. Said date shall be inserted on the first page hereof when such date is determined.

 15.9 Good Faith. Both parties shall act reasonably and in good faith in order to consummate this transaction.

 15.10 Authorization. Purchaser and the person(s) executing this Agreement on behalf of Purchaser represent and warrant that they are authorized to do so and that this is a legal, valid, and binding obligation on behalf of Purchaser, and is enforceable against Purchaser in accordance with its terms.

 15.11 Default. In the event of default, neither party shall be liable for consequential damages.

 15.12 Attorneys' Fees and Costs. If either party brings suit or submits to an alternative dispute process to interpret or enforce any provision of the agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to reasonable attorney fees, paralegal fees, accountant and other expert witness fees and all other fees, costs and expenses actually incurred in connection therewith, including those incurred on appeal, in addition to all other amounts provided by law, regardless of whether the matter proceeds to judgment or is resolved by the defaulting party curing the default.

 15.13 Submission. This Agreement must be executed by Purchaser, and an original delivered to State, at the address set forth in this Agreement, on or before 4:00 p.m. on May 5, 2006, to be considered by State. This Agreement shall not be binding upon State until signed by an authorized representative of the State.

 SECTION 16 - CONTINUING FORESTLAND OBLIGATIONS

 Buyer acknowledges that the Property is subject to certain continuing forestland obligations applicable to the property under the forest practices rules adopted pursuant to RCW 76.09.070, including but not limited to the continuing obligations, if any, listed on the notice which is attached hereto as Exhibit C (the "Continuing Obligations"). At or before Closing, Buyer agrees to sign and deliver to Seller the original of the notice attached hereto as Exhibit C or such other notice that indicates the Buyer's knowledge of the Continuing Obligations as may be required by the Washington Department of Natural Resources ("DNR") at the time of Closing. At Closing, Seller shall send the executed notice to DNR in accordance with the requirements of RCW 76.09.390.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

 PURCHASER:

 Dated: ___________________________ By: ___________________________________

 Printed: _________________________________

 Title: ___________________________________

 STATE:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON

 DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES

 Dated: ___________________________ By: ___________________________________

 Doug Sutherland

 Commissioner of Public Lands

 Affix the Seal of the Commissioner

 of Public Lands

 Approved as to Form this

 24th day of April 2006

 Roger A. Braden

 Assistant Attorney General

 State of Washington

 PUBLIC AGENCY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF_____________)

 On this ____ day of _________, 2006, personally appeared before me ______________________ to me known to be the __________________________ of the public agency that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that ___________________________________ authorized to execute said instrument for said corporation and that the seal affixed is the corporate seal of the said corporation.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and seal the day and year first above written.

 ________________________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at ______________________.

 My appointment expires _____________________.

 STATE ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF THURSTON )

 On this _____ day of ______________, 20___, personally appeared before me DOUG SUTHERLAND, to me known to be the Commissioner of Public Lands, and ex officio administrator of the Department of Natural Resources of the State of Washington, that he executed the within and foregoing instrument on behalf of the State of Washington, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of the State of Washington for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument and that the seal affixed is the official seal of the Commissioner of Public Lands for the State of Washington.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and seal the day and year first above written.

 ________________________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at ______________________.

 My appointment expires ____________________

 EXHIBIT A

 BOXLEY CREEK

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION

 That portion of the South 1/2 of Section 35, Township 23 North, Range 8 East Willamette Meridian, situated in the County of King, State of Washington described as follows:

 PARCEL "X":

 Commencing at the Southeast corner of said Section 35, a 4 inch square concrete monument with brass plate center punched found in place;

 Thence along the south line of said section N 88? 48' 21" W, basis of bearing Washington State Plane Coordinates, North Zone, NAD 83(91), a distance of 1,730.00 feet to the Point of Beginning, from which the South 1/4 corner bears N 88? 48' 21" W a distance of 902.44 feet;

 Thence N 43? 48' 21" W a distance of 810.00 feet;

 Thence N 30? 48' 21" W a distance of 1,787.77 feet to the southerly line of the Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission property, as described in King County Auditor's file No. 8912151342, and shown by the Chicago, Milwaukee St. Paul Railway Co. right of way and track map Coast Division, main line, sheet 72 of 77;

 Thence along said southerly line S 73? 59' 16" W a distance of 839.62 feet;

 Thence continuing along said line S 16? 00' 44" E a distance of 150.00 feet;

 Thence continuing along said line S 73? 59' 16" W a distance of 601.00 feet;

 Thence continuing along said line N 16? 00' 44" W a distance of 150.00 feet;

 Thence continuing along said line S 73? 59' 16" W a distance of 214.90 feet to the beginning of a spiral curve offset 50 feet southeasterly from railroad centerline beginning at station 938+35.9 and ending at station 938+66, defined by transitional curves which initial center point bears N 16? 00' 44" W, described as follows:

 Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 28,697.90 feet, through a central angle of 0? 01' 26" an arc length of 12.02 feet;

 Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 5,577.18 feet, through a central angle of 0? 11' 16" an arc length of 18.28 feet;

 Thence continuing along said line S 15? 46' 58" E a distance of 150.00 feet to the continuation of said spiral curve offset 200 feet southeasterly from railroad centerline beginning at station 938+66 and ending at station 939+55.9, defined by transitional curves which initial center point bears N 15? 48' 57" W, described as follows:

 Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 2928.37 feet, through a central angle of 0? 22' 25" an arc length of 19.09 feet;

 Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 2,322.07 feet, through a central angle of 0? 19' 26" an arc length of 13.13 feet;

 Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 1,936.24 feet, through a central angle of 0? 23' 46" an arc length of 13.38 feet;

 Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 1,669.12 feet, through a central angle of 0? 28' 05" an arc length of 13.63 feet;

 Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 1,473.24 feet, through a central angle of 0? 32' 24" an arc length of 13.88 feet;

 Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 1,323.45 feet, through a central angle of 0? 36' 42" an arc length of 14.13 feet;

 Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 1,187.86 feet, through a central angle of 0? 41' 44" an arc length of 14.42 feet, to a 1,154.93 foot radius tangent curve to the right, from which the initial center point bears

 N 12? 24' 44" W;

 Thence continuing along said line and said curve an arc length of 340.52 feet, through a central angle of 16? 53' 34", to the intersection of said boundary line with the west line of said section, from which the West 1/4 corner of said section, a found 4 inch pyramidical concrete monument with 3 inch square brass plate stamped " SWD 1/41/4 S, 34-35, T23-8", bears N 01? 40' 29" E a distance of 1,224.48 feet,

 Thence along the west line of said section S 01? 40' 29" W a distance of 258.38 feet to the northerly line of City of Seattle property described in King County Auditor's file No. 5444388;

 Thence along said property line S 67? 00' 25" E a distance of 408.54 feet to a 162.40 foot radius tangent curve to the right;

 Thence continuing along said property line and said curve an arc length of 184.72 feet, through a central angle of 65? 10' 19";

 Thence continuing along said property line S 01? 49' 55" E a distance of 280.35 feet to a 421.10 foot radius tangent curve to the right;

 Thence continuing along said property line and said curve an arc length of 235.58 feet, through a central angle of 32? 03' 14";

 Thence continuing along said property line S 30? 13' 21" W a distance of 381.53 feet to the south line of said section, from which the Southwest corner, a found 5 inch square concrete monument with 1/8 inch brass pin, of said section bears N 88? 53' 26" W a distance of 268.06 feet;

 Thence along the south line of said section S 88? 53' 26" E a distance of 2,363.71 feet to the South 1/4 corner of said section, a rebar with 3/4 inch plastic cap stamped "CHIC 12786", found in place;

 Thence along said south section line S 88? 48' 21" E a distance of 902.44 feet to the Point of Beginning;

 Containing 100.89 acres, more or less.

 Together with PARCEL "Y":

 Beginning at the Southwest corner of said Section 35, a found 5 inch square concrete monument with 1/8 inch brass pin found in place;

 Thence along the south line of said section S 88? 53' 26" E a distance of 153.60 feet to the easterly line of City of Seattle property described in King County Auditor's file No. 5444388;

 Thence along said property line N 30? 13' 20" E a distance of 437.22 feet to a 321.10 foot radius tangent curve to the left;

 Thence continuing along said property line and said curve an arc length of 179.64 feet, through a central angle of 32? 03' 14";

 Thence continuing along said property line N 01? 49' 55" W a distance of 280.35 feet to a to a 62.40 foot radius tangent curve to the left;

 Thence continuing along said property line and said curve an arc length of 70.98 feet, through a central angle of 65? 10' 13";

 Thence continuing along said property line N 67? 00' 25" W a distance of 203.16 feet to the southerly line of City of Seattle property described in King County Auditor's file No. 7109010506;

 Thence along said southerly property line N 86? 56' 51" W a distance of 65.01 feet;

 Thence continuing along said property line S 57? 15' 50" W a distance of 109.07 feet, from which the West 1/4 corner of said section, a found 4 inch pyramidical concrete monument with 3 inch square brass plate stamped " SWD 1/41/4 S, 34-35, T23-8", bears N 01? 40' 29" E a distance of 1710.76 feet;

 Thence along the west line of said section S 01? 40' 29" W a distance of 906.59 feet to the Point of Beginning;

 Containing 7.18 acres more or less.

 Parcel "X" and Parcel "Y" together contain 108.07 acres more or less.

 Patrick J. Hastings

 PLS # 41280

 EXHIBIT B

 BOXLEY CREEK AFTER RECORDING RETURN TO: Department of Natural Resources Asset Management & Protection Division PO Box 47014 Olympia, WA 98504-7014

 QUITCLAIM DEED

 King County Grantor: State of Washington, acting by and through the Department of Natural Resources.

 Grantee: CITY OF SEATTLE, SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITIES Abbreviated

 Legal Desc:

 Tax Parcel No.:

 THE GRANTOR, STATE OF WASHINGTON, acting by and through the Department

 of Natural Resources, for and in consideration of the sum of Dollars ($ ), hereby conveys and quitclaims to CITY OF SEATTLE, SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITIES all interest in the real property situated in King County, Washington, and described in Exhibit A, attached hereto, which by this reference is made a part hereof.

 The above-described lands are subject to that certain statutory reserved right as set forth in RCW 79.36.370 and to the following reservation:

 The Grantor hereby expressly saves, excepts, and reserves out of the grant hereby made, unto itself and its successors and assigns forever, all oils, gases, coal, ores, minerals, and fossils of every name, kind, or description, and which may be in or upon said lands above described, or any part thereof, and the right to explore the same for such oils, gases, coal, ores, minerals, and fossils; and it also hereby expressly saves and reserves out of the grant hereby made, unto itself and its successors and assigns forever, the right to enter by itself or its agents, attorneys, and servants upon said lands, or any part or parts thereof, at any and all times, for the purpose of opening, developing, and working mines thereon, and taking out and removing therefrom all such oils, gases, coal, ores, minerals, and fossils, and to that end it further expressly reserves out of the grant hereby made, unto itself, its successors and assigns, forever, the right by its or their agents, servants, and attorneys at any and all times to erect, construct, maintain, and use all such buildings, machinery, roads, and railroads, sink such shafts, remove such soil, and to remain on said lands or any part thereof for the business of mining and to occupy as much of said lands as may be necessary or convenient for the successful prosecution of such mining business, hereby expressly reserving to itself and its successors and assigns, as aforesaid, generally, all rights and powers in, to, and over said land, whether herein expressed or not, reasonably necessary or convenient to render beneficial and efficient the complete enjoyment of the property and the rights hereby expressly reserved.

 No rights shall be exercised under the foregoing reservation, by the state or its successors or assigns, until provision has been made by the state or its successors or assigns, to pay to the owner of the land upon which the rights reserved herein to the state or its successors or assigns, are sought to be exercised, full payment for all damages sustained by said owner, by reason of entering upon said land: PROVIDED, That if said owner from any cause whatever refuses or neglects to settle said damages, then the state or its successors or assigns, or any applicant for a lease or contract from the state for the purpose of prospecting for or mining valuable minerals, or option contract, or lease, for mining coal, or lease for extracting petroleum or natural gas, shall have the right to institute such legal proceedings in the superior court of the county wherein the land is situate, as may be necessary to determine the damages which said owner of said land may suffer.

 This Deed is executed and delivered pursuant to RCW 79.02.270 at the request of the Commissioner of Public Lands with the approval of the Board of Natural Resources, State of Washington.

 WITNESS the Seal of the State of Washington, affixed this ____ day of _______, 2006.

 ________________________________________

 G O V E R N O R

 ATTEST: ________________________________________

 S E C R E T A R Y O F S T A T E

 Approved as to form this

 ___ day of _____, 2006.

 _____________________

 Assistant Attorney General State Deed No. _________. State Record of Deeds, Volume ______, Page ____. Transaction File No. 02-_________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE

 EXHIBIT C

 When Recorded Return to: DNR - South Puget Sound Region 950 Farman Ave North Enumclaw, WA 98022-9282 Washington State Department of Natural Resources

 Notice of Continuing Forest Land Obligation

 Sellers and Buyers of land and perpetual timber rights have certain rights and responsibilities when the land or perpetual timber rights are sold or transferred. Where the land is subject to certain continuing forestland obligations including without limitation reforestation, Road Maintenance and Abandonment Plans and Harvest Strategies along Type 4 Waters in Eastern Washington, prior to the sale or transfer of the land or perpetual timber rights the law requires that the following occur: 1) the seller shall notify the buyer of the existence and nature of the obligations and 2) the buyer shall sign a Notice of Continuing Forestland Obligation Form indicating the buyer's knowledge of such obligation. At the time of sale or transfer of the land or perpetual timber rights the seller shall send the signed Form to the Department of Natural Resources (DNR). The Form may be obtained from your DNR region office.

 If the seller fails to notify the buyer about the continuing forest land obligation referenced above, the seller shall pay the buyer's costs related to such continuing forest land obligation, (including all legal costs) incurred by the buyer in enforcing the continuing forestland obligation against the seller. Failure by the seller to send the required notice to the DNR at the time of sale shall be prima facie evidence, in an action by the buyer against the seller for costs related to continuing forest land obligation, that the seller did not notify the buyer of the continuing forest land obligation prior to sale. See RCW 76.09.070, RCW 76.09.390 and WAC 222-20-055.

 There are also other types of continuing forestland obligations subject to certain requirements, including without limitation Small Forest Landowner Forest Riparian Easements and Landowner Landscape Plans. For more information contact the DNR Region Office. 3 CONTINUING OBLIGATION/S

 Reforestation (RCW 76.09.070)

 ____ Obligation exists on the property identified below and relates to the following Forest Practice Application/Notification (FPA/N) Numbers (list all that apply, add attachment if necessary)

 ____ No Reforestation obligation exists on the property.

 Road Maintenance and Abandonment Plan (WAC 222-24-051)

 ____ Obligation exists on property identified below and relates to the following FPA/N Numbers and/or Road Maintenance and Abandonment Plan Numbers (list all that apply, add attachment if necessary)

 _____ Road Maintenance and Abandonment Plan is required, but not yet filed

 ____ No Road Maintenance and Abandonment Plan obligation exists on the property.

 Harvest Strategy along Type 4 Waters in Eastern Washington (WAC 222- 30-022 (2)(b

 ____ Obligation exists on the property identified below and relates to the following FPA/N Numbers (list all that apply, add attachment if necessary)

 ____ No Harvest Strategy obligation exists on the property.

 PROPERTY IDENTIFICATION

 Land/Rights Sold/Transferred (circle one): Land and Timber Land Perpetual Timber Rights

 Date that the Land/Rights was/were Sold/Transferred (month/day/year):

 County/ies:

 DNR Region/s:

 Legal Description of the Lands/Rights being Sold/Transferred (include county parcel number/s, add attachment if necessary):

 SELLER: BUYER:

 Signature: Signature:

 Date: Date:

 Print name: Print name:

 Title: Title:

 Address: Address:

 Phone: Phone:

 NOTE TO SELLER:

 At the time of sale or transfer of the property or the perpetual timber rights:

 The seller is responsible for delivering (by certified mail or in person) the SIGNED ORIGINAL to the DNR Region Office in which the property is located. However, if you choose to also have this form recorded by the county, the original is delivered to the county and a copy delivered (by certified mail or in person) to the DNR Region Office.

 ______________________________________________________________________ _____

 FOR DEPARTMENTAL USE ONLY

 Notice of Continuing Forestland Obligation #:_________ Date Received: ______________

 Region: ___________________ Received by: ___________________________________

 FORM DNR QQ-42 (July 18, 2002)

```
