

********

**Council Bill Number: 115642**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods to purchase and accept a restrictive covenant and easement from the Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers to provide City and public access to community meeting facilities at the Georgetown City Hall property for a period of fifteen years.

**Status:** Retired April 21, 2008
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Licata)
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 17, 2006
   
**Committee:** Economic Development and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** CLARK
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, EASEMENTS, GEORGETOWN, LITTLE-CITY-HALLS, MEETINGS, EVENTS, FACILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**115642

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods to purchase and accept a restrictive covenant and easement from the Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers to provide City and public access to community meeting facilities at the Georgetown City Hall property for a period of fifteen years.

 WHEREAS, the Puget Sound Neighborhood Heath Centers ("PSNHC"), a Washington non-profit corporation, owns the Georgetown City Hall property and has used it to provide low-income health services to City residents for many years; and

 WHEREAS, PSNHC plans to renovate the Georgetown City Hall to create approximately 1,000 square feet of community meeting space, to expand its low-income healthcare facilities, and to improve the building's historic structure; and

 WHEREAS, the City recognizes that the provision of low-income health care is a vital service to the community; and

 WHEREAS, the City has a public interest in ensuring its citizens have access to community meeting facilities; and

 WHEREAS, the City has identified a need for community meeting facilities in the Georgetown neighborhood; NOW THEREFORE

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of the Department of Neighborhoods ("Director") is authorized to purchase and accept, on behalf of the City of Seattle, a Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for City and Community Use of and Access to Meeting Facilities ("Easement") with the PSNHC substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1, and is authorized to enter into the Agreement Between the City of Seattle and the Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers Regarding Restrictive Covenant and Easement In Gross for City and Community Use Of and Access To the Georgetown City Hall Facility ("Agreement") substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 2. The Director is authorized to enter into such agreements and execute such documents (including without limitation an escrow agreement) as the Director deems necessary to effectuate the transaction contemplated by this ordinance. The Director is further authorized to make such additions, modifications or deletions to the Easement or Agreement as the Director deems to be in the best interest of the City.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after the passage of the ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President ____________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Grant of Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for City and Community Use of and Access to The Georgetown City Hall Facility and Memorandum of Agreement.

 Attachment 2: Agreement Between the City of Seattle and the Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers Regarding Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for City and Community Use of and Access to the Georgetown City Hall Facility.

 Jill Simmons:JLB

 DON Purchase of Georgetown City Hall Easement

 June 19, 2006

 version 2a

 2

 ATTACHMENT 1

 RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND

 WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

 GRANT OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT AND EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR CITY AND COMMUNITY USE OF AND ACCESS TO THE GEORGETOWN CITY HALL FACILITY and MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

 GRANTOR: Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers, a Washington non- profit corporation

 GRANTEE: The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY:

 The Old Georgetown City Hall and the property on which it is sited, more particularly described as Lots 29, 30, 31 and 32, Block 6, Queen Addition to the City of Seattle, Section 20, Township 24, Range 4.

 ASSESSOR'S TAX PARCEL NUMBER: 7006200345

 THIS GRANT OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT AND EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR CITY AND COMMUNITY USE OF AND ACCESS TO THE GEORGETOWN CITY HALL FACILITY AND MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT is executed this _____ day of ____________, 2006 by Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers ("GRANTOR"), in favor of The City of Seattle, its successors and assigns ("GRANTEE"). This Grant and Memorandum are intended to give record notice that GRANTOR and GRANTEE have entered into that certain "Agreement Regarding Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for City and Community Use of and Access to the Georgetown City Hall Facility" dated of even date herewith (the "Agreement"), the terms and conditions of which Agreement are hereby incorporated herein by this reference, and to give record notice of the material provisions thereof as follows:

 1. Grant of Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for City and Community Use of and Access to the Georgetown City Hall Facility

 GRANTOR hereby grants and warrants to GRANTEE, its successors and assigns, a restrictive covenant and easement in gross to use the Georgetown City Hall real property more particularly described above (the "Property"), the scope, duration and terms of which restrictive covenant and easement are more fully described in the Agreement and are described in abbreviated form below.

 2. Duration, Scope, and Terms of Restrictive Covenant

 GRANTOR covenants and promises that the first floor of the Georgetown City Hall as described in the Agreement will be used for the development, construction, renovation and operation of community meeting facilities and office space. The term of this restrictive use shall begin upon the day this grant is executed and shall continue until fifteen (15) full years from the first day when the meeting facilities are renovated and open and available for use by the City and community.

 3. Duration, Scope and Terms of Easement in Gross for City and Community Use and Access

 The GRANTOR grants and warrants to GRANTEE an easement in gross to enter upon and use the Property for the purposes described in the Agreement.

 The GRANTOR grants and warrants to the GRANTEE, or its designees, access to and use of the renovated first floor meeting facilities described in the Agreement for three (3) uses per year at no charge. The use period will be for a full fifteen (15) years, and shall begin on the first day the meeting facilities are renovated and open for use, and shall end fifteen (15) full years later. The use rights granted are subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement..

 The GRANTOR further grants and warrants that for the same fifteen year use period, community groups shall have access to and use of the first floor meeting facilities as described at the lowest cost possible and subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement.

 4. Priority

 The GRANTEE's and the community's right to the restrictive covenant and easement in gross granted under this grant shall have priority over any and all liens, encumbrances, leases, subleases, or other interests in the burdened property. The GRANTOR shall, at its sole cost and expense, obtain any and all consents and/or subordinations of other interests in the Property, including the subordination of the rights of any mortgagees, lessees, sublessees, successors and assigns as may be necessary to assure the GRANTEE its rights under this grant and the Agreement are and remain free and clear of all liens, exceptions, encumbrances or other interests affecting the rights of the public or the rights of the GRANTEE under this restrictive covenant and easement.

 5. Burdens to run with the land.

 The burdens and obligations of this Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross run with the land and the rights, duties, covenants, restrictions, agreements, limitations and obligations herein created shall constitute covenants running with the land, shall burden the Property, and all such easements, covenants, restrictions, agreements, limitations and obligations contained herein shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and permitted assigns of the respective parties hereto.

 Dated this _____ day of _________, 2006.

 :

 (Grantor)

 By:

 Name:

 Title:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _______________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he signed this instrument, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute the instrument as the _______________ of _______________________________, and acknowledged it to be the free and voluntary act of said ___________________________, for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 DATED: ____________________.

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at

 Print Name:

 My commission expires:

 Page 1 of 3 Attachment 1

 ATTACHMENT 2

 AGREEMENT

 Between

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 and

 THE PUGET SOUND NEIGHBORHOOD HEALTH CENTERS

 Regarding

 RESTRICTIVE COVENANT AND EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR CITY AND COMMUNITY USE OF AND ACCESS TO THE GEORGETOWN CITY HALL FACILITY

 This Agreement is entered into by and between The City of Seattle ("City"), a first class city of the State of Washington, acting by and through its Department of Neighborhoods ("Department"), and the Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers ("PSNHC"), a Washington non-profit corporation.

 1. RECITALS

 1.1 The PSNHC owns the Georgetown City Hall building and has been using it to provide low-income health services to the community, including City residents, for more than twenty years.

 1.2 In order to continue and expand its services at the Georgetown City Hall building, PSNHC plans to renovate the Georgetown City Hall to improve the structure, expand its healthcare facilities, and create 1,000 square feet of meeting space to be available for community use. PSNHC's present and future intended use of the building provides valuable benefits and services to the community and to the City and its residents.

 1.3 The City currently pays for the management and operation of numerous community centers throughout the City for purposes including access to and use of community meeting facilities. The City sees a need for sufficient community meeting space in the neighborhood where the Georgetown City Hall is located.

 1.4 The City recognizes that the provision of low-income health care is a vital service for the community, and further wishes to ensure that its residents have access to low cost community meeting facilities.

 1.5 The City also wishes to ensure that it will have access to meeting facilities in the Georgetown area.

 1.6 The recitals set forth above are incorporated into this Agreement.

 2. DEFINITIONS

 2.1 Agreement: This Agreement between the City and PSNHC, including all exhibits.

 2.2 Community Groups: The meaning of this term shall be liberally construed and shall include, but not be limited to, not-for-profit organizations (including PSNHC), government and quasi-government groups, community and business organizations, and members of the general public.

 2.3 Covenant and Easement: The Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for City and Community Use of and Access to the Georgetown City Hall Facility as described in this Agreement and the grant attached as Exhibit C.

 2.4 Department: The Department of Neighborhoods of the City of Seattle.

 2.5 Easement Term and Duration: The period that begins on the date this Agreement becomes effective under Section 3 and ends when the Use Period ends or when the Easement is terminated under the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 2.6 Grantee: The City of Seattle and its successors and designees.

 2.7 Grantor: The Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers ("PSNHC").

 2.8 Meeting Facilities: The first floor meeting rooms as described in Exhibit B.

 2.9 Partial Use Year: The period beginning on the first day of the Use Period and ending on December 31 of that calendar year, and the period beginning on the last January 1 of the Use Period and ending at the end of the Use Period.

 2.10 Property: The entire building commonly known as the Georgetown City Hall and the real property on which it is situated, more specifically described in Exhibit A.

 2.11 Use Period: The period beginning on the first day of the month immediately following the date on which the renovations to the Property are complete and the Meeting Facilities are open and available to the public and ending fifteen (15) years later.

 2.12 Use Rights: Grantee's rights to access and use the Meeting Facilities or to permit others to do so, as described and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and Exhibit C.

 3. EFFECTIVE DATE

 This Agreement shall be effective when fully executed by the parties following approval by the Seattle City Council.

 4. PURCHASE AND GRANT OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT AND EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR CITY AND COMMUNITY USE OF AND ACCESS TO MEETING FACILITIES.

 By this Agreement, the Department, on behalf of the City, purchases a Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for City and Community Use of and Access to Meeting Facilities at the Georgetown City Hall from PSNHC for Six Hundred Ninety-Five Thousand Dollars ($695,000).

 By this Agreement, PSNHC grants to the City a Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for City and Community Use and Access to Meeting Facilities, which encumbers the Property and provides public and community use of specified portions of Georgetown City Hall under the terms and conditions specified in this Agreement.

 5. RESTRICTIVE COVENANT

 For the period of time beginning on the first day of the Easement Term and Duration and ending on the earlier of the expiration of the Use Period or any prior termination of this Covenant and Easement, Grantor covenants that the Meeting Facilities (as described in Exhibit B) shall be used exclusively for the development, construction, renovation and operation of community meeting facilities and community office space, and for no other purpose whatsoever.

 6. EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR CITY AND COMMUNITY USE OF AND ACCESS TO MEETING FACILITIES.

 6.1 For the duration of the Easement Term and Duration, PSNHC grants the City an Easement in Gross for City and Community Use of and Access to Meeting Facilities. During the fifteen (15) year Use Period, Grantor will ensure that Community Groups and the City shall have priority access to and use of the Meeting Facilities described in Exhibit B. PSNHC shall be solely responsible for maintaining, managing, and operating the Meeting Facilities according to its own discretion, subject to the conditions of this entire Agreement.

 6.2 PSNHC may establish procedures that guide hours of operation, codes of conduct, and other policies necessary to efficiently and fairly operate the Meeting Facilities. However, PSNHC's procedures shall maximize the City and Community Group's access to the Meeting Facilities to the fullest extent possible.

 6.3 PSNHC may require that users of the Meeting Facilities enter a use agreement provided that the use agreement is designed to ensure safe and equitable access to the Meeting Facilities, to limit damage to the Meeting Facilities, and to limit PSNHC's risk in operating and managing the Meeting Facilities.

 6.4 The City, or its designee, shall be entitled to use of the Meeting Facilities three (3) times per calendar year free of charge for the duration of the Use Period. The number of free City uses will be prorated for all Partial Use Years. Any additional City use will be at the same low cost charged to Community Groups, described in Section 6.5.

 6.5 Community Groups' use of the Meeting Facilities shall be provided at the lowest cost possible. PSNHC may charge a fee for community use of the Meeting Facilities, but the fee shall be limited to the amount necessary to cover the costs of operating and managing the Meeting Facilities.

 7. COMMENCEMENT OF THE USE PERIOD

 PSNHC will complete the construction and renovations to the Property and open the Meeting Facilities for use no later than January 1, 2012. The Use Period will commence no later than January 1, 2012. PSNHC's failure to meet this deadline will be considered a Default. The City may, at its discretion, make accommodations to PSNHC and delay the commencement of the Use Period, but the City is not bound to do so and will remain free to pursue any remedies available at law, whether or not expressly permitted under the terms of this Agreement.

 8. CONSTRUCTION, TAXES, MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION RESPONSIBILITIES AND COST

 PSNHC shall have sole responsibility for construction, maintenance and operation of the Property and the Meeting Facilities. This responsibility includes, but is not limited to, the payment of any and all taxes and construction costs, and any costs associated with the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Meeting Facilities, and the property on which they are sited. The City will not be responsible for any costs associated with construction, maintenance, or operation of the Property in general, nor will the City be responsible for any costs associated with or arising from the Use Rights other than as allowed in Section 6.5.

 9. DEPARTMENT OVERSIGHT/AUDIT

 9.1 The Department shall have the right to monitor and oversee the PSNHC's compliance with the requirements and conditions of this Agreement. The PSNHC shall submit to the Department an annual report documenting City and community use of the Meeting Facilities. In addition, PSNHC shall provide the Department with reasonable access to any additional information, records, and facilities that would assist the Department in monitoring PSNHC's compliance with this Agreement.

 9.2 The PSNHC shall maintain books, records, documents and other evidence of accounting procedures and practices which sufficiently and properly reflect all direct and indirect costs of any nature expended in connection with the operation and management of the limited term easement. These records shall be subject at all reasonable time to inspection, review or audit by personnel duly authorized by the Department, the City, the Office of the State Auditor, and other officials so authorized by law, rule, regulation or contract.

 10. INDEMNIFICATION

 The parties recognize that PSNHC shall have control over the operation and maintenance of the Property and Meeting Facilities. As a result, PSNHC agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the City of Seattle, its elected officials, officers, employees and agents harmless from any and all damages, claims, liabilities, losses, and/or costs of any kind, including attorney's fees, that arise in any way from City use, City designee's use, and/or public use under the Covenant and Easement, including, but not limited to, Community and City use of the Meeting Facilities and surrounding grounds and property. This clause applies to claims, liabilities, costs, losses, and/or damages of any kind arising out of or relating to any concurrent act or omission of PSNHC or any of its officers, employees, contractors or agents and the City or any City officer, elected official, employee or agent; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the PSNHC to indemnify the City against liability for bodily injury or damage to property caused by or resulting from the sole negligence of the City or of any of its officers, elected officials, employees, or agents. The indemnification obligation set forth in this section shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 THE PARTIES CERTIFY BY SIGNATURE BELOW THAT THIS INDEMNIFICATION PROVISION WAS INDIVIDUALLY NEGOTIATED.

 11. INSURANCE

 PSNHC shall maintain at all times during the life of this Agreement the following insurance:

 11.1 All risks property insurance, including earthquake and flood, on the Easement. The amount of insurance shall be not less than the current replacement cost of the Easement as established upon each annual insurance policy renewal. The City of Seattle shall be an additional insured, mortgagee and loss payee with respect to the Easement as its interest may appear.

 11.2 General (premises) liability insurance on the Easement with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 each occurrence bodily injury and property damage combined single limit. The City of Seattle shall be an additional insured for primary and non- contributory limits of liability.

 The insurance described in paragraphs 11.1 and 11.2 above shall be placed with insurers having A.M. Best's ratings of not less than A- VII unless procured under the provisions of chapter 48.15 RCW and shall not be cancelled without thirty (30) days prior written notice to the City, except ten (10) days as respects non-payment of premium. Certification of insurance, including actual copies of the policy provisions that document that the City is (1) an additional insured, mortgagee and loss payee on the all risks property insurance, and (2) an additional insured for primary and non-contributory limits of the general (premises) liability insurance.

 A copy of all insurance required herein shall be provided to the Department no later than seven (7) days after execution of this Agreement. PSNHC shall also provide the City with documentation of the above insurance policies on an annual basis in conjunction with the reporting requirements set out in Section 9.

 12. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION

 If the Property or Meeting Facilities shall be destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty when Community Groups and the City, or its designee, shall have Use Rights remaining under the Covenant and Easement granted herein, then PSNHC shall restore or rebuild the Meeting Facilities if sufficient insurance proceeds are available, and the Use Rights granted pursuant to the Covenant and Easement shall apply to the rebuilt or restored Meeting Facilities, and the Easement Term and Duration shall be extended by a period equal to the time that Use Rights under this Covenant and Easement were not available. In the alternative, if the Meeting Facilities are not rebuilt or restored, or if such building or restoration does not commence within 24 months of the damage or destruction, the PSNHC shall pay the City liquidated damages as described in Section 19.

 13. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

 Grantor represents and warrants as follows:

 13.1 Grantor is a Washington not for profit corporation duly organized and in good standing in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington; and

 13.2 Grantor has the right, power and authority to grant the Covenant and Easement and to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement; and that all requisite actions of Grantor to enter, deliver and perform this Agreement and to authorize the execution by the person signing on behalf of Grantor (including the consent of third parties if applicable) have been taken.

 13.3 Neither the grant of Covenant and Easement, nor any provision of this Agreement and Easement is in conflict with any provision of any other agreement or instrument by which Grantor is bound or to which the Property is subject (including but not limited to any debts that are secured by the Property), nor shall the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement and the Covenant and Easement constitute an event of default under any such agreement or instrument.

 14. LEASE, RENTAL OR PERMISSION FOR USE OF FACILITY

 If the Grantor leases, rents or otherwise permits any person to use the meeting facility in any manner whatsoever, Grantor shall remain bound by this Agreement and the Covenant and Easement and shall not be released from any of Grantor's obligations hereunder.

 15. OBLIGATIONS TO BE EVIDENCED BY RECORDED GRANT AND MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

 PSNHC's obligations and grants of the Covenant and Easement pursuant to this Agreement will be secured by its execution of a Grant of Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for City and Community Use of and Access to the Georgetown City Hall Facility and Memorandum of Agreement, duly recorded with King County and in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit C.

 16. NONDISCRIMINATION

 The PSNHC will comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle, including but not limited to Chapters 14.04, 14.10, 20.42, and 20.45 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), as they may be amended; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 17. DISPUTE RESOLUTION

 In the event that any dispute(s) may arise under this Agreement, the parties shall attempt to resolve the dispute(s) through amicable negotiations between the Department and the PSNHC. If such parties do not agree upon a resolution within a reasonable period of time, the parties agree to participate in a formal mediation prior to filing a lawsuit or pursuing other legal means to resolve such disputes. The mediation will be facilitated by a professional mediator agreed upon by the parties.

 18. TERMINATION AND DEFAULT

 18.1 This Covenant and Easement shall terminate, and all easements, covenants and obligations in it shall be of no further force or effect upon the earliest to occur of:

 (i) The expiration of the Easement Term and Duration; or

 (ii) Prior to the beginning of the Use Period, the date on which Grantee receives full reimbursement in accordance with Section 19; or

 (iii) After the beginning of the Use Period, the date on which Grantee receives full reimbursement in accordance with Section 19.

 18.2 The City may terminate this Agreement in the event that the PSNHC shall have failed to perform any of the conditions of the Easement and this Agreement. Such failure shall be considered a Default.

 If the PSNHC is in Default, the City shall provide written notice to the PSNHC, specifying the nature of the Default, the reasonable number of days (but not more than sixty (60) days) after the date of the notice within which such Default must be cured to avoid termination, and the City's intention to terminate this Agreement if the Default is not corrected within such stated period; provided however, if the nature of the Default is such that the Default could not be cured within such period but the PSNHC shall have commenced and thereafter diligently pursued a cure within such period, the PSNHC shall not be deemed to be in Default.

 18.3 In addition to or in lieu of the foregoing, the City shall be entitled to all remedies as may be permitted from time to time by the laws of the State of Washington. The City's rights and remedies hereunder are not exclusive, but cumulative, and the City's exercise of any right or remedy due to the PSNHC's failure to perform any covenant or condition of this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of, or alter, affect or prejudice any other right or remedy that the City may have under this Agreement or by law or in equity.

 19. LIQUIDATED DAMAGES

 19.1 The parties understand and agree that the City's ability to obtain value from the Easement granted is conditioned upon the renovation of the Property and the completion, opening and operation of the Meeting Facilities. As a result, the parties agree to liquidated damages in the amounts set forth herein with the intention that such damages will fairly measure the loss to the City and are not punitive in nature.

 19.2 In the event that the Grantor fails to open and operate the Meeting Facilities, PSNHC agrees to pay the City liquidated damages in the amount of Six Hundred ninety-Five Thousand Dollars ($695,000), or the amount equal to the total of any purchase money already paid by the City, plus interest. Interest shall accrue from the date of the purchase of the Covenant and Easement until the date of repayment at the rate applied during the same period of time to the participating funds of the Consolidated Cash Portfolio of the City of Seattle. Upon receipt of the liquidated damages, this Agreement and the Covenant and Easement shall be terminated.

 19.3 Additionally, in the event the Grantor ceases to fulfill its obligations as provided in this Agreement prior to the expiration of the fifteen year Use Period of the Covenant and Easement, the PSNHC agrees to pay the City liquidated damages in the amount of the Forty- Six Thousand Dollars ($46,000) for each year remaining on the Use Period plus interest, accrued as described in Section 19.2, for each year remaining in the Easement term. Upon receipt of liquidated damages, this Agreement and the Easement shall be terminated. However, the City shall work with the Grantor to make reasonable accommodations should circumstances beyond the Grantor's control make it impossible for the Grantor to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement and the Easement

 19.4 In the event that PSNHC subsequently sells or transfers the Property, and in the event that such sale or transfer results in a Default under Section 18, or in the event that liquidated damages are due and owing as of the date of sale or transfer, the parties agree that the liquidated damages will be a lien for the City's benefit upon the property and against any purchase money received by PSNHC.

 19.5 The City shall not pursue liquidated damages under this Section until it provides written notice to PSNHC, specifying the nature of its failure to comply with this Agreement and the Covenant and Easement, and provide PSNHC with sixty (60) days following the written notice to cure the failure.

 20. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 The PSNHC shall comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter, Municipal Code, and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 21. APPLICABLE LAW; VENUE

 This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in the Superior Court for King County.

 22. HEADINGS

 The headings used in this Agreement are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 23. NOTICES AND REPORTS

 Any notices or reports required or permitted hereunder shall be effective when hand delivered during normal business hours or two business days after mailed, postage prepaid, to a party at the addresses set forth below.

 City of Seattle

 Department of Neighborhoods

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 1700

 PO Box 94649

 Seattle, WA 98124-4649

 Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers

 905 Spruce Street, Suite #300

 Seattle, Washington 98104

 24. EXHIBITS

 The following exhibits are incorporated by reference and are made a part of this Agreement:

 Exhibit A Legal Description of the Property

 Exhibit B Description of Meeting Facilities

 Exhibit C Grant of Restrictive Covenant and Easement for City and Community Access To and Use of Georgetown City Hall Facility and Memorandum of Agreement.

 25. ASSIGNMENT

 This Agreement is personal to each of the parties hereto and neither party may assign or delegate any of its rights or obligations hereunder without first obtaining the consent of the other party, except the extent that PSNHC may enter a use agreement as provided in Section 3.2.2.

 26. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

 This Agreement and the exhibits attached hereto and forming a part hereof, are all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions between the parties. No verbal agreements or conversations between any officer, agent, associate or employee of the City and any officer, agency, employee or associate of the PSNHC prior to the execution of this Agreement shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in this Agreement. Any such verbal agreements shall be considered unofficial information and in no way binding on either party.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement this ______ day of __________, 2006, by having their representatives affix their signatures below.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By

 Bernie Matsuno,

 Director of Department of Neighborhoods, City of Seattle

 PUGET SOUND NEIGHBORHOOD HEALTH CENTERS

 By

 Mark Secord, Executive Director

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for The City of Seattle)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ______________, , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared Bernie Matsuno, known to me to be the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in the certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 STATE OF )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for PSNHC)

 COUNTY OF )

 On this _____ day of ______________, , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared Mark Secord, known to me to be the Executive Director of the Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the day and year in this certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 EASEMENT AGREEMENT-page 11 of 11 Attachment 2

 DRAFT-3-1-04

 EXHIBIT A

 To

 AGREEMENT

 Between

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 and

 THE PUGET SOUND NEIGHBORHOOD HEALTH CENTERS

 Regarding

 RESTRICTIVE COVENANT AND EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR CITY AND COMMUNITY USE OF AND ACCESS TO THE GEORGETOWN CITY HALL FACILITY

 Legal Description of Property:

 The Old Georgetown City Hall and the property on which it is sited, more particularly described as Lots 29, 30, 31 and 32, Block 6, Queen Addition to the City of Seattle, Section 20, Township 24, Range 4.

 Assessor's Tax Parcel No. 7006200345

[Exhibit B to Attachment 2: Meeting Facility Floor Plan](/~ordpics/115642.pdf)

```
