

********

**Council Bill Number: 115692**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122225**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Local Improvement District No. 6750; authorizing and providing for the issuance and sale of local improvement district bonds to pay part of the cost of financing elements of Local Improvement District No. 6750, and all of the costs of issuing and selling the bonds; providing for terms and sale of the bonds; and providing for the method of fixing the interest rate on assessments in Local Improvement District No. 6750.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 11, 2006
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 18, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 18, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 14, 2006
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** BONDS, FINANCE, LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, ASSESSMENT, STREETCARS, SOUTH-LAKE-UNION DOWNTOWN, DENNY-REGRADE, WESTLAKE

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 122175, 122106, 121951

**Fiscal Note:**115692

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to Local Improvement District No. 6750; authorizing and providing for the issuance and sale of local improvement district bonds to pay part of the cost of financing elements of Local Improvement District No. 6750, and all of the costs of issuing and selling the bonds; providing for terms and sale of the bonds; and providing for the method of fixing the interest rate on assessments in Local Improvement District No. 6750.

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 121951, as amended by Ordinance 122046, The City of Seattle, Washington (the "City"), heretofore has created Local Improvement District No. 6750 to construct and equip a modern streetcar line serving Downtown Seattle, Denny Triangle and South Lake Union; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the following words shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth:

 "Bond Counsel" means a lawyer or a firm of lawyers, selected by the City, of nationally recognized standing in matters pertaining to bonds issued by states and their political subdivisions.

 "Bond Fund" means the City's Local Improvement Fund, District No. 6750, previously created by Ordinance 121951, established in the City Treasury and to be used, among other things, for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds.

 "Bond Register" means the books or records maintained by the Bond Registrar for the purpose of registration of the Bonds.

 "Bond Registrar" means, unless provided otherwise in the Bond Resolution, the fiscal agent of the State of Washington, or any successor bond registrar selected by the City, whose duties include the registration and authentication of the Bonds, maintenance of the Bond Register, effecting transfer of ownership of the Bonds, and paying the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds.

 "Bond Resolution" means the resolution or resolutions of the City Council adopted pursuant to this ordinance to specify certain additional provisions of the Bonds and their sale.

 "Bonds" means the Local Improvement District No. 6750 Bonds issued pursuant to this ordinance.

 "City" means The City of Seattle, Washington, a municipal corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington.

 "City Council" means the City Council of the City, as duly and regularly constituted from time to time.

 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor thereto, and all applicable regulations thereunder.

 "Director of Finance" means the director of the Department of Finance of the City, and any successor to substantially the same duties.

 "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York.

 "Government Obligations" means direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States Government.

 "Letter of Representations" means either a Blanket Letter of Representations between the City and DTC, as it may be amended from time to time, or in lieu thereof, a Letter of Representations relating specifically to the Bonds.

 "Local Improvement Guaranty Fund" means the City fund of that name created by Ordinance 52903 and described in SMC 20.08.010.

 "Project" means the construction and equipping of a modern streetcar line serving downtown Seattle, Denny Triangle and South Lake Union, as authorized by Ordinance 121951.

 "Record Date" means, in the case of each interest or principal payment or redemption date, the Bond Registrar's close of business on the 15th day of the month preceding the interest or principal payment or redemption date.

 "Registered Owner" means the person shown on the Bond Register as the owner of one or more Bonds.

 "Securities Depository" means any one of the following registered securities depositories which has been designated by the City: (i) DTC; (ii) Midwest Securities Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois; (iii) Philadelphia Depository Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; or (iv) such other securities depositories as the City may designate in a certificate of the City delivered to the Bond Registrar.

 "SMC" means Seattle Municipal Code.

 Section 2. Authorization and Description of Bonds. For the purposes of paying a part of the costs of the Project and all of the costs of issuing and selling the Bonds, the City is authorized to issue Bonds in the maximum principal amount of not to exceed $25,800,000. The Bonds shall be issued in a single series; and shall have such estimated redemption dates, annual redemption group designations assigned by CUSIP number, or other designation as determined by the Director of Finance or as specified by the Bond Resolution consistent with the provisions of this ordinance; shall be dated as specified by the Bond Resolution; shall be in the denomination of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, or such other denomination within the first estimated redemption group assigned by CUSIP number as specified by the Bond Resolution; and shall be issued in the manner and with any additional designation (including CUSIP numbers) as the Bond Registrar deems necessary for the purpose of identification; and shall bear interest payable on the date or dates and at such rate or rates as specified and approved by the Bond Resolution, which rate or rates shall be fixed and the net interest cost shall not exceed a weighted average rate of 8% per annum. The Bonds shall mature on the date or dates as specified by the Bond Resolution, except that the final maturity of the Bonds shall not exceed 20 years from the date of the Bonds. Principal of the Bonds shall be payable in accordance with the Bond Resolution, which shall include an estimated redemption schedule that will include the estimated redemption dates, CUSIP numbers, amounts and interest rates. As used in this ordinance, "CUSIP Numbers" shall mean the identification numbers (or replacement identification numbers) assigned by the CUSIP Service Bureau, or its successor, to any of the Bonds.

 Section 3. Bond Resolution. The City Council may adopt the Bond Resolution and in that resolution may provide for the matters described in this ordinance and such other matters that the City Council deems necessary, appropriate, or desirable to carry out the purposes of this ordinance.

 The Bond Resolution may provide for bond insurance, and may provide conditions or covenants relating thereto, including additional terms, conditions, and covenants relating to the Bonds that are required by any bond insurer and are consistent with the provisions of this ordinance, including but not limited to restrictions on investments and requirements of notice to and consent of the bond insurer. The Bond Resolution may approve and authorize the establishment of the interest rate or rates on the Bonds, and the execution and delivery on behalf of the City of any contracts and other documents consistent with the provisions of this ordinance for which the City's approval is necessary or to which the City is a party and that are related or incidental to the issuance and sale of the Bonds, including but not limited to agreements with any bond insurer, underwriters, lenders, fiscal agencies, custodians, and the Bond Registrar. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are each separately authorized to execute and deliver, on behalf of the City, any contracts and other documents consistent with the provisions of this ordinance for which the City's approval is necessary or to which the City is a party and that are related or incidental to the issuance and sale of the Bonds.

 The Bond Resolution shall fix the interest rate on assessments in Local Improvement District No. 6750.

 Section 4. Registration and Transfer or Exchange of Bonds. Notwithstanding the provisions of Seattle Municipal Code Section 20.04.170, the Bonds shall be issued only in registered form as to both principal and interest and shall be recorded on the Bond Register. The Bond Register shall contain the name and mailing address of the Registered Owner of each Bond and the principal amount and number of each of the Bonds held by each Registered Owner.

 The City appoints DTC as initial Securities Depository for the Bonds. For so long as DTC is the Securities Depository for the Bonds, DTC or its nominee shall be deemed to be the Registered Owner of the Bonds for all purposes hereunder, and all references in this ordinance or the Bond Resolution to the Registered Owners of the Bonds shall mean DTC or its nominee and shall not mean the owners of any beneficial interests in the Bonds. Payments of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on all outstanding Bonds registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, or its registered assign, shall be made as provided in the Letter of Representations.

 Bonds executed and delivered in fully immobilized form shall be executed and delivered in the form of one fully-registered immobilized certificate for each estimated annual redemption group assigned by CUSIP number representing the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds of that estimated annual redemption group, which Bonds shall (except as provided below for the discontinuation or substitution of Securities Depository) be registered in the name of the Securities Depository or its nominee. For so long as DTC serves as Securities Depository for the Bonds, the Bonds shall be registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of DTC; however, if DTC shall request that the Bonds be registered in the name of a different nominee, the Bond Registrar shall exchange all or any portion of the Bonds for an equal aggregate principal amount of Bonds registered in the name of such other nominee or nominees of DTC. No person other than DTC or its nominee shall be entitled to receive from the City or the Bond Registrar any Bond or any other evidence of ownership of the Bonds, or any right to receive any payment in respect thereof, unless DTC or its nominee shall transfer record ownership of all or any portion of the Bonds on the Bond Register, in connection with discontinuing the book entry system as provided below or otherwise.

 For so long as the Bonds are registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, all payments of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on the Bonds shall be made to DTC or its nominee in immediately available funds on the dates provided for such payments under this ordinance and the Bond Resolution and at such times and in the manner provided in the Letter of Representations. Each such payment to DTC or its nominee shall be valid and effective to fully discharge all liability of the City or the Bond Registrar with respect to the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Bonds to the extent of the sum or sums so paid. In the event of the redemption of less than all of the Bonds of any estimated annual redemption group, the Bond Registrar shall not require surrender by DTC or its nominee of the Bonds so redeemed, and DTC or its nominee may retain such Bonds and shall make an appropriate notation thereon as to the amount of such partial redemption. DTC shall deliver to the Bond Registrar, upon request, a written confirmation of such partial redemption. The records maintained by the Bond Registrar shall be conclusive as to the amount of the Bonds of such series and maturity that have been redeemed.

 All transfers of beneficial ownership interests in Bonds registered in the name of DTC or its nominee shall be effected by the procedures of DTC's participants and/or indirect participants for recording and transferring the ownership of beneficial interests in bonds.

 The City and the Bond Registrar may treat DTC (or its nominee) as the sole and exclusive Registered Owner of the Bonds registered in its name for the purposes of payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on those Bonds, selecting Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, giving any notice permitted or required to be given to Registered Owners under this ordinance or the Bond Resolution, registering the transfer of Bonds, obtaining any consent or other action to be taken by Registered Owners of Bonds and for all other purposes whatsoever; and the City and the Bond Registrar shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary. The City and the Bond Registrar shall not have any responsibility or obligation to any direct or indirect DTC participant, any person claiming a beneficial ownership interest in the Bonds under or through DTC or any such participant, or any other person which is not shown on the Bond Register as being a Registered Owner of Bonds, with respect to: (i) the Bonds; (ii) any records maintained by DTC or any such participant; (iii) the payment by DTC or any such direct or indirect participant of any amount in respect of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest with respect to the Bonds; (iv) any notice which is permitted or required to be given to Registered Owners of Bonds under this ordinance or the Bond Resolution; (v) the selection by DTC or any such direct or indirect participant of any person to receive payment in the event of a partial redemption of the Bonds; or (vi) any consent given or other action taken by DTC as Registered Owner of the Bonds.

 For so long as the Bonds are registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, all notices required or permitted to be given to the Registered Owners of such Bonds under this ordinance or the Bond Resolution shall be given to DTC as provided in the Letter of Representations.

 In connection with any notice or other communication to be provided to Registered Owners pursuant to this ordinance or the Bond Resolution by the City or the Bond Registrar with respect to any consent or other action to be taken by Registered Owners of the Bonds, DTC shall consider the date of receipt of notice requesting such consent or other action as the record date for such consent or other action; however, the City or the Bond Registrar may establish a special record date for such consent or other action and shall give DTC notice of such special record date not less than 15 calendar days in advance of such special record date to the extent practical.

 Any successor Bond Registrar, in its written acceptance of its duties under this ordinance and the Bond Resolution, shall agree to take any actions necessary from time to time to comply with the requirements of any applicable Letter of Representations.

 The book entry system for registration of the ownership of the Bonds delivered in fully immobilized form may be discontinued at any time if: (i) after notice to the City and the Bond Registrar, DTC determines to resign as Securities Depository for the Bonds; or (ii) after notice to DTC and the Bond Registrar, the City determines that a continuation of the system of book entry transfers through DTC (or through a successor Securities Depository) is not in the best interests of the City. In each of such events (unless, in the case described in clause (i) above, the City appoints a successor Securities Depository), the Bonds shall be delivered in registered certificate form to such persons, and in such estimated annual redemption group assigned by CUSIP number and principal amounts, as may be designated by DTC, but without any liability on the part of the City or the Bond Registrar for the accuracy of such designation. Whenever DTC requests the City and the Bond Registrar to do so, or whenever the City requests DTC and the Bond Registrar to do so after the determination by the City to replace DTC with a successor Securities Depository, the City and the Bond Registrar shall cooperate with DTC in taking appropriate action after reasonable notice to arrange for another Securities Depository to maintain custody of certificates evidencing the Bonds.

 Section 5. Mutilated, Lost, Stolen and Destroyed Bonds. In case any Bonds shall become mutilated or be destroyed, stolen, or lost, the City may, if not then prohibited or otherwise required by law, cause to be executed and delivered a new Bond of like amount, interest rate, maturity date, and tenor in exchange and substitution for and upon cancellation of such mutilated Bonds, or in lieu of and in substitution for such destroyed, stolen, or lost Bonds, upon payment by the Registered Owner thereof of the reasonable expenses and charges of the City and the Bond Registrar in connection therewith, and in the case of a Bond destroyed, stolen, or lost, the filing with the Bond Registrar of evidence satisfactory to the City that such Bond was destroyed, stolen, or lost, and of the ownership thereof, and furnishing the City and the Bond Registrar with indemnity satisfactory to each of them. If the mutilated, destroyed, stolen, or lost Bond already has matured or been called for redemption in accordance with its terms, it shall not be necessary to issue a new Bond prior to payment.

 Section 6. Payment of Bonds. Both principal of and interest on the Bonds shall be payable solely out of the Bond Fund and from the Local Improvement Guaranty Fund of the City, and shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America. Interest on the Bonds shall be paid by checks, drafts, or warrants of the Bond Registrar mailed on the interest payment date, or, if requested in writing prior to the Record Date by a Registered Owner of Bonds, by electronic transfer on the interest payment date to Registered Owners of the Bonds as those Registered Owners and their addresses and accounts appear on the Bond Register on the Record Date (or other record date established in the Bond Resolution), but only if the requesting Registered Owner pays the costs of such electronic transfer. Principal of and premium, if any, on the Bonds shall be payable at maturity or on such date as may be specified for prior redemption upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds by the Registered Owners at the principal corporate trust office or offices of the Bond Registrar. Notwithstanding the foregoing, payment of any Bonds registered in the name of DTC or its nominee shall be made in accordance with the Letter of Representations.

 Section 7. Redemption and Purchase of Bonds. All or some of the Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to their stated maturity dates at the option of the City at the times and on the terms set forth in the Bond Resolution.

 Portions of the principal amount of any Bond, in integral amounts of $5,000 (or $5,000 plus such other denomination within the first estimated redemption group assigned by CUSIP number) may be redeemed, unless otherwise provided in the Bond Resolution. If fewer than all of the outstanding Bonds of an estimated annual redemption group are to be called for redemption, the selection of specific Bonds for redemption within that group shall be at random, and for as long as the Bonds are registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, the selection shall be in accordance with the operational arrangements of DTC, then in effect, as referenced in the Letter of Representations.

 All Bonds purchased or redeemed under this Section 7 shall be canceled.

 Section 8. Notice of Redemption. The City shall cause notice of any intended redemption of Bonds to be given not less than 15 nor more than 30 days prior to the date fixed for redemption by first- class mail, postage prepaid, to the Registered Owner of any Bond to be redeemed at the address appearing on the Bond Register at the time the Bond Registrar prepares the notice, and the requirements of this sentence shall be deemed to have been fulfilled when notice has been mailed as so provided, whether or not it is actually received by the Registered Owner of any Bond. Interest on Bonds called for redemption shall cease to accrue on the date fixed for redemption unless the Bond or Bonds called are not redeemed when presented pursuant to the call. In addition, the redemption notice shall be mailed by the Bond Registrar within the same period, postage prepaid, to Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a Division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., at their offices in New York, New York, or their successors, any bond insurer for the Bonds, and to such other persons and with such additional information as the Director of Finance shall determine or as specified in the Bond Resolution, but none of these additional mailings shall be a condition precedent to the redemption of Bonds. So long as the Bonds are in book entry form, notice shall be provided in accordance with the Letter of Representations.

 Section 9. Failure to Pay Bonds. If any Bond is not paid when properly presented at its maturity or call date, the City shall be obligated to pay interest on that Bond at the same rate provided in that Bond from and after its maturity or call date until that Bond, principal, premium, if any, and interest, is paid in full or until sufficient money for its payment in full is on deposit in the Bond Fund and that Bond has been called for payment by mailing notice of that call, postage prepaid, to the Registered Owner of that Bond.

 Section 10. Form and Execution of Bonds. The Bonds shall be typed, printed, photocopied, or lithographed on good bond paper in a form consistent with the provisions of this ordinance, the Bond Resolution, and State law; shall be signed by the Mayor and Director of Finance, either or both of whose signatures may be manual or in facsimile; and the seal of the City or a facsimile reproduction thereof shall be impressed or printed thereon.

 Only Bonds bearing a Certificate of Authentication in substantially the following form, manually signed by the Bond Registrar, shall be valid or obligatory for any purpose or entitled to the benefits of this ordinance:

 CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

 This Bond is one of the fully registered The City of Seattle, Washington, Local Improvement District No. 6750 Bonds, described in the Bond Ordinance. BOND REGISTRAR By _____________________ Authorized Signer

 The authorized signing of a Certificate of Authentication shall be conclusive evidence that the Bond so authenticated has been duly executed, authenticated, and delivered and is entitled to the benefits of this ordinance.

 If any officer whose facsimile signature appears on a Bond ceases to be an officer of the City authorized to sign bonds before the Bond bearing his or her manual or facsimile signature is authenticated or delivered by the Bond Registrar or issued by the City, that Bond nevertheless may be authenticated, delivered, and issued and, when authenticated, issued, and delivered, shall be as binding on the City as though that person had continued to be an officer of the City authorized to sign bonds. Any Bond also may be signed on behalf of the City by any person who, on the actual date of signing of the Bond, is an officer of the City authorized to sign bonds, although he or she did not hold the required office on the date of issuance of the Bonds.

 Section 11. Bond Registrar. The Bond Registrar shall keep, or cause to be kept, at its principal corporate trust office, sufficient books for the registration and transfer of the Bonds, which shall be open to inspection by the City at all times. The Bond Registrar is authorized, on behalf of the City, to authenticate and deliver Bonds transferred or exchanged in accordance with the provisions of the Bonds and this ordinance, to serve as the City's paying agent for the Bonds, and to carry out all of the Bond Registrar's powers and duties under this ordinance and Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 5.10 establishing a system of registration for the City's bonds and obligations, as that chapter now exists or may hereafter be amended. The City reserves the right in its discretion to appoint special paying agents, registrars, or trustees in connection with the payment of some or all of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Bonds. If a new Bond Registrar is appointed by the City, notice of the name and address of the new Bond Registrar shall be mailed to the Registered Owners of the Bonds appearing on the Bond Register at the time the Bond Registrar prepares the notice. The notice may be mailed together with the next interest payment due on the Bonds, but, to the extent practicable, shall be mailed no later than the Record Date for any principal payment or redemption date of any Bond.

 The Bond Registrar shall be responsible for its representations contained in the Bond Registrar's Certificate of Authentication on the Bonds. The Bond Registrar may become the Registered Owner of Bonds with the same rights it would have if it were not the Bond Registrar and, to the extent permitted by law, may act as depository for and permit any of its officers or directors to act as members of, or in any other capacity with respect to, any committee formed to protect the rights of the Registered Owners of the Bonds.

 Section 12. Pledge of Assessment Payments. Assessments collected in Local Improvement District No. 6750, together with interest and penalties, if any, are pledged to the payment of the Bonds, which are payable solely out of the Bond Fund and the Local Improvement Guaranty Fund of the City in the manner provided by law. The Bonds are not general obligations of the City.

 Section 13. Preservation of Tax Exemption for Interest on Bonds. The City covenants that it will take all actions, consistent with the terms of the Bonds, this ordinance, and the Bond Resolution, reasonably within its power and necessary to prevent interest on the Bonds from being included in gross income for federal income tax purposes, and the City will neither take any action nor make or permit any use of proceeds of the Bonds or other funds of the City treated as proceeds of the Bonds at any time during the term of the Bonds which will cause interest on the Bonds to be included in gross income for federal income tax purposes.

 Section 14. Continuing Disclosure. The City shall undertake to provide for the benefit of holders of the Bonds certain annual financial information and operating data of the type included in the final official statement for those Bonds, if any, as well as disclosure of certain material events respecting the Bonds, in the manner and to the extent required by United States Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12. The particular terms of any such undertaking shall be set forth in the Bond Resolution.

 Section 15. Sale of Bonds. The Director of Finance may provide for the sale of the Bonds by public sale or by a negotiated sale with one or more selected underwriters or other financial institutions chosen through a selection process acceptable to the Director of Finance, including the evaluation of responses to any request for proposals. The Director of Finance is authorized to specify the date and time of sale of the Bonds, to give notice of that sale, to determine any proposal or bid requirements and criteria for determining the award of the sale of the Bonds, and to specify other matters in his or her determination necessary, appropriate, or desirable to carry out the sale of the Bonds. The terms of that sale shall be consistent with this ordinance and the Bond Resolution and shall be confirmed by the Bond Resolution. The Bonds shall be delivered to the purchaser or purchasers as provided by the Bond Resolution immediately upon payment to the City of the purchase price plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of closing in immediately available federal funds in Seattle, Washington, at the City's expense or at another time or place upon which the Director of Finance and the purchaser may mutually agree at the expense of the purchaser or purchasers.

 CUSIP numbers will be printed on the Bonds. All expenses in relation to the printing of CUSIP numbers on the Bonds shall be paid by the City, but the fee of the CUSIP Service Bureau for the assignment of those numbers shall be the responsibility of and shall be paid by the purchaser or purchasers of the Bonds.

 The City will cause the Bonds to be typed, printed, photocopied, or lithographed, sealed, and executed and will furnish the approving legal opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel to the City regarding the Bonds.

 Section 16. Bond Fund, Deposit and Use of Proceeds. Prior to the issuance of the Bonds, any money on hand representing collections pertaining to prepayments or installments of assessments, and interest thereon, shall be transferred to and deposited in the Bond Fund; that money may be used for costs of the Project or for the redemption of Bonds, as determined by the Director of Finance. All collections pertaining to assessments on the assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 6750 that are collected after the issuance of the Bonds shall, when received, be deposited in the Bond Fund, and until the Bonds are redeemed or otherwise provided for, those collections shall be used to redeem Bonds or to pay for costs of collecting delinquent assessments. Unless provided otherwise by the Bond Resolution, the principal proceeds and premium, if any, received from the sale and delivery of the Bonds shall be paid into or allocated to the Bond Fund, and thereafter such other funds, accounts, or subaccounts of the City Treasury as the Director of Finance may determine, and used to pay all or part of the costs of the Project, including repaying, with interest, interfund loans from the Transportation Operating Fund and/or Consolidated Cash Pool, and the costs of issuing and selling the Bonds. Consistent with RCW 35A.40.020 and RCW 35.22.570, and notwithstanding the provisions of SMC 20.04.200, the payment of costs of the Project by check shall be deemed a payment of costs by a warrant drawn on the Bond Fund.

 Accrued interest on the Bonds received from the sale and delivery of the Bonds, if any, together with any net premium received from the sale and delivery of the Bonds that is not necessary to pay the costs of issuance and sale of the Bonds, shall be paid or allocated into the Bond Fund prior to the first debt service payment date with respect to those Bonds. Until needed to pay the costs described herein, the City may invest principal proceeds of the Bonds temporarily in any legal investment, and the investment earnings shall be deposited in the Bond Fund. Earnings subject to a federal tax or rebate requirement may be withdrawn from any such fund or account and used for those tax or rebate purposes.

 Any proceeds of Bonds remaining after paying the costs of the Project, issuing and selling the Bonds, and for the purposes set forth in this Section, or after the City Council has determined that the expenditure of such Bond proceeds for those purposes is no longer necessary or appropriate, may be used to pay principal of and interest on the Bonds consistent with applicable law.

 Section 17. General Authorization. The Mayor and the Director of Finance and each of the other appropriate officers of the City are each authorized and directed to do everything as in their judgment may be necessary, appropriate, or desirable in order to carry out the terms and provisions of, and complete the transactions contemplated by, this ordinance. In particular, and without limitation, the Director of Finance may, in his or her discretion and without further action by the City Council, (i) issue requests for proposals or bids for underwriting or financing facilities and execute engagement letters with underwriters or other financial institutions based on responses to such requests, (ii) provide for the preparation of a preliminary official statement, an official statement and other disclosure materials related to the Bonds, (iii) "deem final" the preliminary official statement for purposes of Rule 15c2-12(b)(1) of the Securities and Exchange Commission, (iv) comply with any continuing disclosure requirements applicable to the Bonds, (v) change the Bond Registrar or Securities Depository for the Bonds, and (vi) negotiate terms of and execute a Letter of Representations.

 Section 18. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If a court of competent jurisdiction, all appeals having been exhausted or all appeal periods having run, finds any provision of this ordinance to be invalid or unenforceable as to any person or circumstance, such offending provision shall, if feasible, be deemed to be modified to be within the limits of enforceability or validity. However, if the offending provision cannot be so modified, it shall be null and void with respect to the particular person or circumstance, and all other provisions of this ordinance in all other respects, and the offending provision with respect to all other persons and all other circumstances, shall remain valid and enforceable.

 Section 19. Ratification of Prior Acts. Any action taken consistent with the authority but prior to the effective date of this ordinance, including, if applicable, but not limited to issuing requests for proposals for financing or underwriting services, executing engagement letters for financing or underwriting services based on responses to such requests, giving notices of the sale of Bonds, executing contracts or other documents, making fund transfers, and paying or redeeming checks or warrants, is ratified, approved, and confirmed.

 Section 20. Headings. The section headings in this ordinance are used for convenience only and shall not constitute a substantive portion of this ordinance.

 Section 21. Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within 10 days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006. ____________________________________ City Clerk July 27, 2006 version 1

```
