

********

**Council Bill Number: 115629**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122158**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Fleets and Facilities Department to execute a lease agreement with T&L Enterprises for property at 1318 North 128th Street on behalf of Seattle Public Utilities.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 17, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 24, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 24, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 10, 2006
   
**Committee:** Environment, Emergency Management and Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, FLEETS-AND-FACILITIES-DEPARTMENT, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, OFFICE-FACILITIES, HALLER-LAKE, STORAGE-BUILDINGS, WAREHOUSES

**Fiscal Note:**115629

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Fleets and Facilities Department to execute a lease agreement with T&L Enterprises for property at 1318 North 128th Street on behalf of Seattle Public Utilities.

 WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities has leased this property as their north end operations center for the past five years; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities will need to continue operating from leased facilities for an additional three years; and

 WHEREAS, this property is especially suitable because of its proximity to the north and south transportation corridors in addition to the Haller Lake Shops; and

 WHEREAS, it is standard City practice for the Fleets and Facilities Department to procure leased industrial space on behalf of Seattle Public Utilities, pay rent to the landlord for such leased space, and subsequently receive reimbursement from Seattle Public Utilities; and

 WHEREAS, the proposed lease agreement includes yard space larger than the Fleets and Facilities Department is authorized to lease by Seattle Municipal Code 3.18.200 without City Council approval; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Fleets and Facilities Director and recommended by the Mayor, said Director or her designee is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, a lease agreement with T&L Enterprises, substantially in the form of Exhibit "1" attached hereto, and providing for occupancy by the City of Seattle of a portion of the real property commonly known as 1318 North 128th Street, Seattle, Washington.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit 1: Lease between T&L Enterprises and the City of Seattle

 for the Seattle Public Utilities Department

 Barbara Brannan

 T&L Enterprises-Ord.doc

 April 17, 2006

 version 1

 1

 EXHIBIT 1 FFD T&L Enterprises ORD - Exhibit 1

 LEASE

 by and between

 T&L ENTERPRISES,

 a Washington partnership

 as

 Landlord

 and

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 as

 Tenant

 Premises:

 1318 North 128th Street

 Seattle, Washington

 1. PREMISES. 1

 1.1 Lease to Tenant 1

 1.2 Condition of Premises 1

 2. TERM. 1

 2.1 Term 1

 3. RENT. 2

 3.1 Fixed Rent 2

 3.2 Additional Rent 2

 3.3 Triple Net Lease 2

 4. TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS. 3

 4.1 Payment by Tenant 3

 4.2 Definition 3

 4.3 Personal Property Taxes 3

 4.4 Further Improvements 4

 4.5 Changes in Taxes 4

 5. USE OF THE PREMISES. 4

 5.1 Use 4

 5.2 Compliance with Laws 4

 5.3 Uses Prohibited. 5

 5.4 Exterior Fixtures 5

 5.5 Advertising and Signs 5

 6. UTILITIES AND SERVICES 5

 6.1 Building Utilities 5

 6.2 Additional Utility Capacity 6

 6.3 Telephone and Data Transmission 6

 6.4 No Landlord Liability 6

 7. MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS. 6

 7.1 Landlord's Obligations 6

 7.2 Tenant's Obligations 7

 7.3 Modifications, Alterations and Additions. 8

 8. ENTRY BY LANDLORD 9

 9. LIENS 10

 10. INDEMNITY. 10

 10.1 Tenant's Indemnity 10

 10.2 Landlord's Indemnity 11

 10.3 Joint or Concurrent Negligence 11

 10.4 Exculpation of Landlord from Liability 11

 11. INSURANCE. 11

 11.1 Liability Insurance Error Bookmark not defined.

 11.2 Property Insurance-Premises Error Bookmark not defined.

 11.3 Coverage for Tenant's Personal Property Error Bookmark not defined.

 11.4 Insurance Policies Error Bookmark not defined.

 11.5 Indemnification and Waivers Error Bookmark not defined.

 12. DAMAGE TO PREMISES. 12

 12.1 Damage: Extent of Obligation to Restore 12

 12.2 Extent of Landlord's Obligation to Restore 12

 12.3 Damage Near End of Term 12

 13. EMINENT DOMAIN. 12

 13.1 Total Taking 12

 13.2 Partial Taking 12

 14. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. 12

 14.1 Landlord's Representation 12

 14.2 Tenant Covenants; Indemnification: Remedial Work 12

 14.3 Breach as Material Default 12

 14.4 Reports and Information 12

 14.5 Survival 12

 15. DEFAULT REMEDIES. 12

 15.1 Default 12

 15.2 Remedies 12

 15.3 Late Charges 12

 16. MISCELLANEOUS. 12

 16.1 Estoppel Certificate. 12

 16.2 Transfer of Landlord's Interest 12

 16.3 Limitation on Landlord's Liability 12

 16.4 Captions: Attachments. 12

 16.5 Entire Agreement 12

 16.6 Severability 12

 16.7 Costs of Suit. 12

 16.8 Time 12

 16.9 Binding Effect: Choice of Law 12

 16.10 Waiver 12

 16.11 Surrender of Premises 12

 16.12 Holding Over 12

 16.13 Amendments: Waiver 12

 16.14 Interest on Past Due Obligations 12

 16.15 Notices 12

 16.16 Fair Construction 12

 16.17 Authority 12

 16.18 Assignment and Subletting. 12

 17. DEFINITIONS 12

 18. BROKERS: AGENCY DISCLOSURE. 12

 18.1 Brokers 12

 18.2 Agency Disclosure 12

 LEASE

 (TRIPLE NET)

 THIS LEASE AGREEMENT (the "Lease") is made and entered into this ____ day of __________, 2006, by and between T&L ENTERPRISES, a Washington partnership ("Landlord") and THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("Tenant") a Washington municipal corporation.

 1. PREMISES.

 1.1 Lease to Tenant. In consideration of the rents to be paid and the covenants and agreements hereinafter provided which Landlord and Tenant hereby agree to keep and perform, Landlord hereby leases to Tenant and Tenant hereby leases from Landlord certain real property situated in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, commonly known as 1318 North 128th Street and more particularly described on Exhibit A attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein (the "Land") together with the improvements now or hereafter constructed on the Land (the "Building"). The Land and the Building are hereinafter referred to collectively as the Premises.

 1.2 Condition of Premises. Tenant has had an opportunity to and has conducted an investigation of the Premises and is generally knowledgeable and familiar with the present condition and state of repair of the Premises. Tenant acknowledges that, except to the extent expressly set forth in this Lease, neither Landlord nor any agent of Landlord has made any representation or warranty with respect to the Premises or with respect to the suitability or fitness of the Premises for the conduct of Tenant's business or any other purposes. Landlord shall be responsible to make certain that all Building systems will be in good working order as of the Commencement Date. Landlord will repair the parking lot, the interior shall be in "broom clean" condition and the roof, walls and foundation shall be in good repair as of the Commencement Date. Subject to the preceding two sentences, Tenant shall take possession of the Premises in their current "AS IS" condition and state of repair. The parties agree that Landlord shall not be responsible for performing any alterations or improvements to the Premises which may be required as a result of Tenant's use and occupancy of the Premises, including, but not limited to, any alterations or improvements to the Premises required to comply with The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, nor shall Landlord be required to make any other alterations, repairs or improvements to the Premises. The taking of possession or use of the Premises by Tenant for the conduct of its business shall conclusively establish that the Premises were at such time in satisfactory condition and state of repair, and without any representation or warranty by Landlord, express or implied, and expressly without recourse to Landlord as to the physical condition or suitability of the Premises for Tenant's intended purposes.

 2. TERM.

 2.1 This Lease shall be for a term of three (3) years ("Term") commencing May 1, 2006, ("Commencement Date") and shall terminate on April 30, 2009.

 3. RENT.

 Commencing on the Commencement Date, Tenant shall pay to Landlord without deduction, offset, prior notice or demand, in advance on the first day of each month during the term hereof, Fixed Rent and Additional Rent each as defined below, in lawful money of the United States at Landlord's address as set forth in Section 16.15 of this Lease or as Landlord may from time to time otherwise designate in writing. Fixed Rent and Additional Rent for any partial month shall be prorated on a daily basis at the rate of 1/30 of the Fixed Rent or any Rent then due. "Rent" shall mean Fixed Rent, Additional Rent and any other monetary sum required to be paid by Tenant to Landlord under this Lease.

 3.1 Fixed Rent. Commencing on the Commencement Date, Tenant shall pay Landlord without deduction, offset, prior notice or demand, in advance on the first day of each month during the Term of this Lease, Fixed Rent for the Premises according to the following schedule:

 (1) $22,600.00 per month from May 1, 2006, through April 30, 2007;

 (2) $23,200.00 per month from May 1, 2007, through April 30, 2008;

 (3) $23,800.00 per month from May 1, 2008, through April 30, 2009;

 3.2 Additional Rent. All amounts which Tenant is required to pay to Landlord pursuant to this Lease (other than Fixed Rent) shall constitute additional rent ("Additional Rent") whether or not the same be designated as Additional Rent. Tenant shall perform all its obligations under this Lease at its sole cost and expense, and shall pay to Landlord all Additional Rent promptly upon receipt of Landlord's invoice. Tenant shall also promptly pay to all third parties any other sums required to be paid by Tenant under this Lease, when the same shall be due and payable and in all events prior to delinquency, without notice or demand, deduction or offset, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Lease.

 3.3 Triple Net Lease. This Lease is of the type commonly known as a "triple net lease", it being understood that Landlord shall receive the Rent set forth in Section 3 hereof free and clear of any and all impositions, Taxes, liens, charges or expenses of any nature whatsoever in connection with the ownership, operation, use, maintenance and repair of the Premises except those which are Landlord's responsibility under Section 7.1 hereof. In addition to the Rent specified in Section 3 hereof, Tenant shall pay to the parties respectively entitled thereto all impositions, insurance premiums, utilities, taxes, operating expenses, maintenance charges, repair costs, and any other charges, costs and expenses which arise or may be contemplated under any provisions of this Lease during the Term hereof provided, however, that where this Lease provides payment shall be in the form of reimbursement to Landlord, that procedure shall apply. To the extent they are undisputed by Tenant, all of such charges, costs and expenses shall constitute Additional Rent and upon the failure of Tenant to pay any of such costs, charges or expenses, Landlord shall have the same rights and remedies as otherwise provided in this Lease for the failure of Tenant to pay Rent. Such costs, charges and expenses commence to accrue on the Commencement Date.

 4. TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS.

 4.1 Payment by Tenant. Tenant shall pay Landlord for all ad valorem real property taxes during the Term of this Lease within thirty (30) days following receipt by Tenant of a property tax bill; provided, however, that in the event Landlord is entitled to pay real property taxes in semi-annual installments, Tenant shall be entitled to pay Landlord real property taxes in semi-annual installments so long as Tenant pays Landlord the first installment no later than April 1 of each year and pays Landlord the second installment no later than October 1 of each year. In the event Tenant fails to pay Landlord any installment of real property taxes on or before the dates set forth above, Tenant shall pay Landlord the entire amount shown in Landlord's real property tax statement, including any interest or penalties resulting from Tenant's failure to make timely payment of real property taxes or any installment thereof, within thirty (30) days following receipt. With the exception of ad valorem real property taxes, Tenant shall pay all Taxes directly to the applicable governmental agency at least thirty (30) days prior to delinquency and shall provide proof of such payment to Landlord promptly upon request.

 4.2 Definition. "Taxes" means all real and personal property taxes and assessments (including assessments for public improvements), license and permit fees, charges for public utilities, leasehold excise taxes, other excise taxes, levies, sales, use and occupancy taxes, business and occupation taxes, all gross receipts or similar taxes i.e., taxes based upon gross income which fail to take into account deductions with respect to depreciation, interest, taxes or ordinary and necessary business expenses relating to the Premises), any tax or charge assessed against the Rent or fair market value of the Premises and any taxes levied or assessed in addition to or in lieu of, in whole or in part, such taxes, assessments or other charges and all other governmental impositions and charges of every kind and nature, general and special, ordinary and extraordinary, foreseen and unforeseen of every character (including interest and penalties thereon) which at any time during or in respect of the Term may be imposed, levied upon or assessed against or which arise with respect to or constitute a lien upon the Building, the Premises (or any part thereof), the leasehold estate created by this Lease or any part thereof, or any estate, right or interest therein, or any occupancy, use or possession of or activity conducted on the Premises or any part thereof To the extent Taxes, assessments or other charges can be paid in installments, Tenant may pay such Taxes in installments and shall only be liable for Taxes from and after the Commencement Date of this Lease. Tenant's obligation to pay such Taxes shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.

 4.3 Personal Property Taxes. Tenant shall pay prior to delinquency all personal property taxes assessed against and levied upon Tenant's furnishings, equipment and all other of Tenant's personal property contained in the Premises. If possible, Tenant shall cause Tenant's furnishings, equipment and all other of Tenant's personal property to be assessed and billed separately from the Premises. If any Taxes on Tenant's personal property or trade fixtures are levied against Landlord or, if the assessed valuation of the Premises are increased by the inclusion therein of a value attributable to Tenant's personal property or trade fixtures, and if Landlord, after written notice to Tenant, pays the Taxes based upon such increase in the assessed value, then Tenant shall upon demand repay to Landlord the Taxes so levied against Landlord.

 4.4 Further Improvements. Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 4 to the contrary, Tenant shall pay any increase in Taxes resulting from any and all improvements of any kind whatsoever placed on or in the Premises at the request of Tenant regardless of whether said improvements were installed or constructed by Landlord or Tenant.

 4.5 Changes in Taxes. The Rent provided for in this Lease is exclusive of any sales or other tax or charge upon, based upon or measured by rents payable to Landlord hereunder, or any tax or other charge based upon or measured by the numbers of employees of Tenant, or any other tax that is not currently in effect. If at any time during the Term of this Lease there is levied or assessed against Landlord a federal, state or local tax or excise tax on rent, or any other tax however described on account of rent or gross receipts received by Landlord from Tenant's use or occupation of the Premises, Tenant shall, to the extent permitted by law, pay all of such tax or excise tax. Taxes shall also include any increase in taxes resulting from Tenant's use of, or any change in Tenant's use of, the Premises or any reassessment or increase in valuation of the Premises, including, but not limited to, any reassessment as a result of tenant improvements made to the Premises by Tenant.

 5. USE OF THE PREMISES.

 5.1 Use. Tenant may use and occupy the Premises solely for maintenance facilities, office, warehousing, parking and related uses (collectively, the "Permitted Use") and for no other purpose without the prior written consent of Landlord. Tenant agrees that it has determined to its satisfaction that the Premises can be used for the Permitted Use. Tenant waives any right to terminate this Lease if the Premises cannot be used for the Permitted Use during the Term.

 5.2 Compliance with Laws. Tenant, at its expense, shall promptly comply with (a) all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations and other governmental rules, orders and determinations now or hereafter in effect, whether or not presently contemplated, applicable to the Premises, or its ownership, operation, use or possession (collectively, "Legal Requirements"), including, without limitation, all those relating to building codes, zoning or other land use matters, The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, life safety requirements, environmental compliance with respect to the handling, treatment, storage, disposal, discharge, use and transportation of Hazardous Substances, and (b) all insurance policies, to the extent necessary to prevent cancellation and to ensure full payment of all claims made under such policies, covenants, conditions and restrictions and all other agreements applicable to the Premises and its ownership, operation, use or possession (collectively, "Agreements"), which compliance includes the making of any and all required physical alterations or structural changes to the Premises, except for those items, if any, that are the responsibility of Landlord under Section 7.1 or Section 12 hereof. If any governmental license or permit shall be required for the proper and lawful use of the Premises, Tenant shall at its expense obtain and thereafter maintain such license or permit in full force and effect and in compliance with all conditions or requirements set forth therein.

 5.3 Uses Prohibited.

 (a) Tenant shall not knowingly do or permit anything to be done in or about the Premises nor bring or keep anything therein which will in any way increase the existing rate or affect any fire or other insurance upon the Premises or the Building or any of its contents (unless Tenant shall pay any increased premium as a result of such use or acts), or cause a cancellation of any insurance policy covering said Premises or said Building or any part thereof or any of its contents, nor shall Tenant sell or permit to be kept, used or sold in or about said Premises any articles which may be prohibited by a standard form policy of fire insurance.

 (b) Tenant shall not allow the Premises to be used for any unlawful purpose, nor shall Tenant cause, maintain or permit any public or private nuisance in, on or about the Premises. Tenant shall not commit or suffer to be committed any waste in or upon the Premises. Tenant shall not, without the prior written consent of Landlord which may be withheld in Landlord's sole discretion, use, operate or maintain any apparatus, machinery, equipment or device in or about the Premises that will cause any noise beyond the levels permitted by law, increase electrical loads or usage, or cause vibration of or structural damage to the Building.

 (c) Tenant shall not, without the prior written consent of Landlord, use any device in the Premises, including, without limitation, computer equipment, data processing machines or

 telecommunications equipment which will in any way increase the amount of ventilation, air exchange, gas, steam, electricity or water beyond the existing capacity of the Building or the Premises.

 5.4 Exterior Fixtures. Tenant shall not install exterior lighting fixtures, shades or awnings or do any exterior decoration or paint, or make any structural alterations to the Building or the Premises without the prior written consent of Landlord.

 5.5 Advertising and Signs. Tenant may install signage identifying Tenant as the occupant of the Premises. Tenant shall not place any other signage on the exterior of the Building or the Premises or on any exterior door or wall or the exterior or interior of any window thereof, or on any part of the interior of the Premises visible from the exterior thereof, (except as required by law) or any advertising matter, and shall not place any decoration, letter or other thing of any kind on the glass of any window or door to the Premises visible from the exterior thereof (except as required by law) without the prior written consent of Landlord. Upon the expiration or sooner termination of this Lease, Tenant at Landlord's request shall remove all signs, advertising matters or decorations at Tenant's sole cost and expense and repair any resulting damage to the Premises and the Building.

 6. UTILITIES AND SERVICES

 6.1 Building Utilities. Building access, electricity, the cooling, heating and ventilating system (HVAC), water and sewer shall be available at the Premises at all times. Tenant shall pay when due and directly to the appropriate utility company all bills for Utilities provided to the Premises. Tenant shall provide its own janitorial service using a company reasonably approved by Landlord.

 6.2 Additional Utility Capacity. If Tenant has mechanical, cooling, heating, ventilation, electrical or other requirements for utility services in excess of the existing electrical, HVAC, mechanical, plumbing or other building systems presently installed in the Premises or in the event that any existing building or utility systems presently installed on the Premises, including, but not limited to, the fire sprinkler system, needs to be relocated or modified to accommodate any improvement Tenant elects to make to the Building in accordance with Section 7.3 of this Lease, then the cost of furnishing, installing, relocating, upgrading, renovating, operating and maintaining the equipment and appurtenances thereto shall be borne by Tenant. Before installing lights or equipment or making use of the Premises in excess of the capacity or design of existing Building systems, Tenant shall obtain the prior written permission of Landlord. Landlord may refuse to grant such permission unless Tenant shall agree to pay all costs to install supplementary air conditioning capacity or electrical systems or other upgrades, relocation, renovation or revisions to Building systems as necessitated by such equipment or lights or if the equipment or lights requested by Tenant will, in Landlord's reasonable judgment, overburden the Building's structure or mechanical, HVAC, plumbing or electrical system(s), even if supplemented at Tenant's expense.

 6.3 Telephone and Data Transmission. Tenant shall have the right to install telephone and data communication systems in the Premises. Tenant shall pay for such services directly to the appropriate telephone or data processing company or other service provider.

 6.4 No Landlord Liability. Landlord shall not be liable for any loss or damage caused by or resulting from any variation, interruption or failure of any utility services due to any cause whatsoever except for loss or damage directly caused by the willful misconduct of Landlord, its agents or employees, and no temporary interruption or failure of such services incident to the making of repairs, alterations or improvements or due to accident or strike conditions shall be deemed an eviction of Tenant or relieve Tenant from any of Tenant's obligations hereunder. In the event of such failure not directly caused by the willful misconduct of Landlord, its agents or employees, Tenant shall not be entitled to any abatement or reduction of Rent. Tenant shall have the right to take all steps Tenant reasonably deems necessary at Tenant's sole cost to obtain the resumption of interrupted utility services or to obtain alternative sources of utility services.

 7. MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS.

 7.1 Landlord's Obligations. Except for damage caused in whole or in part by any negligent or intentional act or omission of Tenant, Tenant's agents, employees or invitees, Landlord, at Landlord's expense, shall keep in good order, condition and repair the foundations, exterior walls (but not windows) and the roof. Landlord shall not be obligated to paint the exterior, nor shall Landlord be required to maintain any windows, doors or plate glass nor the interior surface of exterior walls. Landlord shall have no obligation to make repairs under this Section 7.1 until a reasonable time (not to exceed sixty (60) days) after receipt of written notice of the need for such repairs.

 7.2 Tenant's Obligations. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.1 above, Tenant, at Tenant's sole cost and expense, shall keep in good order, condition and repair the Premises and every part thereof, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all plumbing, heating, air conditioning and ventilating, electrical and lighting facilities and equipment within the Premises, fixtures, interior walls, ceilings, windows, doors, plate glass and skylights located within the Premises, and all sidewalks, landscaping, driveways, loading docks, parking lots, fences, signs and other such items located in the areas which are included within the Premises. If mechanical, electrical or other building systems as may be specified by Landlord from time to time require attention or repair, Tenant shall (except in case of emergency) first notify Landlord in writing prior to such attention or repair. Although maintenance of such systems shall still be the obligation of Tenant, Landlord may, if Tenant fails to do so, repair such systems and charge Tenant for same.

 In the event Tenant fails to maintain the Premises in good order, condition and repair, Landlord shall give Tenant notice to do such acts as are reasonably required to so maintain the Premises. In the event Tenant fails to commence such work within ten (10) days following written notice and/or fails to diligently prosecute such work to completion, then Landlord shall have the right to do such acts and expend such funds at the expense of Tenant as are reasonably required to perform such work. Any amount so expended by Landlord shall be paid by Tenant promptly after demand as Additional Rent together with interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date incurred until paid in full. Landlord shall have no liability to Tenant for any damage, inconvenience or interference with the use of the Premises by Tenant as a result of performing any such work. Nothing in this Lease shall imply any duty or obligation upon the part of Landlord to do any such work or to make any such alterations and repairs and the performance thereof by Landlord shall not constitute a waiver of Tenant's default in failing to perform the same.

 Subject to the terms of Section 12 relating to damage and destruction, upon expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Lease, whether by lapse of time or otherwise (including any holdover period), Tenant at its expense shall: (a) remove all of Tenant's moveable personal property, goods and effects and those of all persons claiming under Tenant from the Premises; (b) remove all telecommunications and computer network wiring and cabling, to the extent required by Landlord, and (c) promptly and peacefully surrender the Premises (including surrender of all tenant improvements and other attached equipment and/or other alterations, additions or improvements installed in the Premises by Landlord or Tenant). Provided Landlord so informed Tenant at the time the improvements were made, Tenant shall repair and restore the Premises or any applicable portion thereof, to the same condition as received by Tenant from Landlord, reasonable wear and tear excepted. Any property left on the Premises more than thirty (30) days after the expiration or termination of the Lease Term shall be deemed to have been abandoned and to have become the property of Landlord to dispose of as Landlord deems expedient and Tenant shall be liable for all costs associated with the disposal of such property. Tenant hereby waives all claims for damages that may be caused by Landlord re- entering and taking possession of the Premises or removing and storing Tenant's property as herein provided, and Tenant shall indemnify and hold Landlord harmless therefrom. No such reentry shall be considered or construed to be a forcible entry.

 Tenant agrees to repair any damage to the Premises caused by or in connection with the removal of any articles of personal property, business or trade fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture or movable partitions including, without limitation thereto, repairing the floor and patching and painting the walls where required by Landlord to Landlord's reasonable satisfaction all at Tenant's sole cost and expense. Tenant shall indemnify the Landlord against any loss or liability resulting from delay by Tenant in so surrendering the Premises, including, without limitation, any claims made by any succeeding tenant based on such delay.

 7.3 Modifications, Alterations and Additions.

 (a) Tenant shall make no modifications, alterations, additions or improvements to the Premises or any part thereof without first obtaining the prior written consent of Landlord, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld (provided, however, that in the event any proposed alteration, addition or improvement affects (a) any structural portions of the Building including exterior walls, roof, foundation and core of the Building then Landlord may withhold its consent in the reasonable exercise of its discretion); (b) the exterior of the Building or which are visible from outside the Building or which are likely to increase taxes or insurance costs (unless Tenant agrees to pay such increased taxes or insurance costs) then Landlord may withhold its consent thereto in its sole and absolute discretion; or (c) any of the Building systems, including plumbing, air conditioning, heating, electrical, security and power, then Landlord may withhold its consent with respect thereto in the reasonable exercise of its discretion. In seeking Landlord's approval, Tenant shall provide Landlord at least ten (10) days in advance of any proposed construction with plans, specifications, bid proposals, work contracts, the identity of architects, contractors, subcontractors and suppliers and such other information concerning the nature and cost of the alterations as may be reasonably requested by Landlord. At the conclusion of said ten (10) day period, Landlord shall indicate its consent to the proposed construction or, if Landlord shall refuse consent, specify the reasons therefore, in writing. If the Landlord fails to respond at the end of the ten (10) day period, Landlord shall be deemed to have consented to the proposed construction as set forth in Tenant's proposed construction plans and specifications. As a condition to giving such consent, Landlord may require Tenant to remove any such modification, alteration, improvement or addition at the expiration of the Lease Term and to restore the Premises to their prior condition. All such modifications, alterations, additions and/or improvements shall be constructed at Tenant's sole cost and expense and shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner in accordance with Landlord approved plans and specifications and by a contractor and under a construction contract, the terns and conditions of which have been approved by Landlord (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld). If Landlord consents to any proposed modification, alteration, addition or improvement to the Premises, the same shall not be a warranty as to the adequacy of the design, workmanship or quality of materials and Landlord hereby expressly disclaims any responsibility or liability for the same. Landlord shall under no circumstances have any obligation to repair, maintain or replace all or any portion of such modifications, alterations, additions or improvements.

 (b) Before commencing any work relative to the modifications, alterations, improvements or additions affecting the Premises, Tenant shall notify Landlord in writing of the expected date of commencement thereof. Landlord shall then have the right at any time and from time to time to post and maintain on the Premises such notices as Landlord reasonably deems necessary to protect the Premises and Landlord from mechanics' liens, materialmen's liens or any other liens. Any such modification, alteration, improvement or addition shall not decrease the value of the Premises, shall be expeditiously completed in a good and workmanlike manner and in compliance with all applicable Legal Requirements and the requirements of all insurance policies applicable to the Premises. Tenant shall provide Landlord with "as-built" plans showing any change in the Premises. Tenant shall maintain a safe working environment at all times, including the continuation of all fire and security protection devices, including fire sprinkler systems and availability and operation of fire water supply lines during any such construction. All damage or injury done to the Premises or the Building during the construction of such work by Tenant or by any persons who may be in or upon the Premises or the Building with the express or implied consent of Tenant or which is caused by acts or omissions or Tenant or Tenant's officers, contractors, subcontractors, agents, invitees, licensees, employees, successors or assigns shall be paid by Tenant. Tenant shall pay, when due, all claims for labor or materials furnished to or for Tenant at or for use in the Premises. Tenant shall not permit any mechanics or materialmen's liens to be levied against the Premises for any labor or materials furnished to Tenant or claimed to have been furnished to Tenant or to Tenant's agents or contractors in connection with the work. Without waiving any of Landlord's remedies, in the event any such lien is filed against the Premises, Tenant shall forthwith cause such lien to be discharged by payment, bonding or otherwise and if Tenant fails to cause such lien to be discharged within ten (10) days after notice of the existence of such lien to Tenant, then Landlord may cause such lien to be discharged by payment, bonding or otherwise, without investigation as to the validity thereof or of any offsets or defense thereto, and shall have the right to collect from Tenant, as Additional Rent, all amounts so paid, and all costs and expenses paid or incurred in connection therewith, including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements, together with interest thereon at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date such cost or expense was incurred until paid in full.

 (c) All such modifications, alterations, additions or improvements shall at the expiration or earlier termination of the Lease become the property of Landlord and remain upon and be surrendered with the Premises unless specified to be removed pursuant to Section 7.3(a) above.

 (d) All articles of personal property, furniture and movable partitions owned by Tenant or installed by Tenant at its expense in the Premises shall be and remain the property of Tenant and may be removed by Tenant at any time during the Term of this Lease provided that Tenant shall, at its sole cost and expense, repair any damage to the Premises caused by such removal.

 8. ENTRY BY LANDLORD. Landlord reserves and shall at all reasonable times during Tenant's business hours after twenty-four (24) hours notice (except in the case of emergencies), have the right to enter the Premises to inspect the same, to show said Premises to prospective purchasers or tenants, to post notices of non- responsibility and, during the last twelve (12) months of the Lease Term, "for lease" signs. For each of the aforesaid purposes, Landlord shall at all times have and retain a key, with which to unlock all of the doors in, upon and about the Premises, excluding Tenant's files, vaults and safes.

 9. LIENS. Tenant shall keep the Premises and the Building of which the Premises are a part, free from any liens out of work performed, materials furnished, or obligations incurred by Tenant and shall protect, indemnify, hold harmless and defend Landlord from and

 against any and all liabilities, losses, damages, expenses and costs (including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) incurred in connection with any such any liens and encumbrances arising out .of any work performed or services, materials or equipment furnished by or at the direction of Tenant. Tenant's obligations pursuant to this Section 9 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. In the event that Tenant shall not, within ten (10) days following the imposition of any such lien, cause such lien to be released of record by payment or posting of a proper bond, Landlord shall have, in addition to all other remedies provided herein and by law, the right, but not the obligation, to cause the same to be released by such means as it shall deem proper, including payment of the claim giving rise to such lien. All such sums paid by Landlord and all expenses incurred by it in connection therewith including attorneys' fees and costs shall be payable to Landlord by Tenant on demand with interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date incurred until paid in full. Nothing contained in this Lease shall be construed as the consent or request of Landlord, express or implied, for the performance of any labor or services or for the furnishing of any materials or equipment for any construction, alteration, addition, repair or demolition of or to the Premises (or any part thereof). NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT LANDLORD WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY LABOR, SERVICES, MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT FURNISHED OR TO BE FURNISHED TO TENANT, OR ANYONE HOLDING AN INTEREST IN THE PREMISES (OR ANY PART THEREOF) THROUGH OR UNDER TENANT, AND THAT NO MECHANICS' OR OTHER LIENS FOR ANY SUCH LABOR, SERVICES, MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT SHALL ATTACH TO OR AFFECT THE INTEREST OF LANDLORD IN THE PREMISES.

 10. INDEMNITY.

 10.1 Tenant's Indemnity. Except as caused by the act or neglect of Landlord or Landlord's contractors, agents or employees, Tenant shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against any and all claims (including, but not limited to employee claims) arising from Tenant's use of the Premises or the conduct of its business or from any activity, work or thing done, permitted or suffered by Tenant in or about the Premises and shall further protect, defend, indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against any and all claims arising from any breach or default in the performance of any obligation on Tenant's part to be performed under the terms of this Lease, or arising from any act or negligence of Tenant, or any of its agents, contractors and employees, and from and against any and all costs, attorneys' fees, expenses and liabilities incurred in connection with such claim or any action or proceeding brought against Landlord by reason of any such claim. Tenant upon notice from Landlord shall defend the same at Tenant's expense. For purposes of this Section 10.1 and Sections 10.2 and 10.3, Landlord shall not be deemed negligent if the matter in question arises from conditions of those portions or items of the Premises the maintenance of which are not the Landlord's responsibility under this Lease.

 10.2 Landlord's Indemnity. Landlord shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold Tenant and its agents harmless from and against any and all losses and liability for bodily injury to persons, loss of life and damage to property occurring on or about the Premises and caused by the negligence of Landlord, its contractors, agents or employees, or the negligent performance by Landlord of any of Landlord's obligations under this Lease.

 10.3 Joint or Concurrent Negligence. In the event of any concurrent negligence of Tenant, its managers, members, agents, employees or contractors on the one hand, and that of Landlord, its managers, members, agents, employees or contractors on the other hand, which concurrent negligence results in injury or damage to persons or property, then Tenant's and Landlord's obligation to indemnify the other as set forth in this Section 10 shall be limited to the extent of the indemnifying party's negligence, and that of their respective managers, members, agents, employees or contractors, including the indemnifying party's proportional share of costs, attorneys' fees and expenses incurred in connection with any claim, action or proceeding brought with respect to such injury or damage.

 10.4 Exculpation of Landlord from Liability. Except to the extent set forth in Section 10.2 and 10.3 above, Landlord shall not be liable to Tenant and Tenant hereby waives all claims against Landlord for injury, illness or death to any person or for damage to any property in or about the Premises by or from any cause whatsoever and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, whether caused by or resulting from fire, steam, electricity, gas, water or rain which may leak or flow from or into any part of the Premises or from breakage, leakage, obstruction or other defects of the pipes, sprinklers, wires, appliances, plumbing, air conditioning or lighting fixtures of the same, whether the said damage or injury results from conditions arising upon the Premises or from other sources.

 11. INSURANCE,

 11.1 Liability Insurance. Tenant shall, at its sole expense, keep in force throughout the Term of this Lease, a liability self- insurance program generally equivalent to coverages and limits of liability as follows: comprehensive general liability insurance with full form personal injury and broad form property damage with respect to the Building and the Premises, insuring against claims for personal injury (including, without limitation, bodily injury or death) and property damage liability with a combined single limit of not less than $2,000,000 per occurrence, automobile liability (with limits of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence) and workers' compensation insurance (as required by law).

 11.2 Property Insurance-Premises. At all times during the term of this Lease, Tenant shall maintain in force at Tenant's expense property insurance on the Building in the amount of (1) not less than 100% of the full replacement cost, which cost shall be reasonably established on an annual basis by the Landlord, of the Building and other improvements, fixtures and equipment which are a part of the Premises (exclusive of the cost of excavations, foundations and footings) and without deduction for physical deprecation and 18 months loss of rents insurance, together with such other insurance coverage as is customarily carried on comparable buildings in the City of Seattle or as Landlord may reasonably determine, with insurance companies which are authorized to do business in the State of Washington or (2) the actual cash value of the Building at the time of loss, if the Building is not replaced. Such insurance shall cover loss or damage from "all risk" perils, including earthquake, flood and boiler and machinery insurance. Such property insurance shall be in builder's risk form during construction of any modifications, alterations or additions to the Building or the Premises and during any restoration accomplished in connection with damage or destruction to the Premises or in connection with any condemnation of the Premises. Tenant's property insurance on the Building shall insure Landlord as an additional insured and loss payee subject to a mortgagee clause as its interests may appear, and shall provide that any proceeds be payable solely to Landlord, or to Landlord's lenders, if any, holding any first mortgage or deed of trust on the Premises. Tenant's property insurance program is subject to a substantial deductible. Tenant shall adjust any loss within its deductible amount according to the provisions of this agreement and Tenant is responsible for the payment of deductibles under said insurance and any costs or restoration resulting from any uninsured or underinsured losses.

 11.3 Coverage for Tenant's Personal Property. Landlord shall have no obligation to insure any of Tenant's personal property or trade fixtures or repair, replace or restore same when damaged or destroyed from any cause whatsoever.

 11.4 Insurance Policies. All insurance required under this Lease (except the self-insurance program described under section 11.1) shall: (i) be issued by insurance companies authorized to do business in the State of Washington with a rating reasonably satisfactory to Landlord, (ii) be issued as a primary policy, and (iii) contain an endorsement requiring forty-five (45) days prior written notice from the insurance company to Landlord, Tenant and Landlord's lenders, if any, before cancellation or change in the coverage, scope or amount of any policy, except ten (10) days notice with respect to non-payment of premium. Each policy, certificate or other evidence of coverage of the policy shall be deposited with Landlord on or before the Commencement Date and as reasonably available upon replacement or renewal of each policy.

 11.5 Indemnification and Waivers. Tenant agrees to waive its property insurer's rights of subrogation in favor of Landlord as respects the Property Insurance - Premises described in section 11.2.

 12. DAMAGE TO PREMISES.

 12.1 Damage: Extent of Obligation to Restore. If during the term of this Lease more than 50% of the Building is damaged or destroyed then either party shall have the option upon written notice to the other which option shall be exercised within thirty (30) days of the date of such damage or destruction, to terminate the Lease. If neither party elects to terminate the Lease or if less than 50% of the Building is damaged or destroyed this Lease shall continue in full force and effect and Landlord shall proceed as promptly as is practicable to restore the Building to an architectural unit as nearly comparable as is reasonable to the unit existing just prior to such damage to the extent that such restoration and/or repair can be accomplished with the available insurance proceeds and completed within eighteen (18) months following the date of such casualty. If either party elects to terminate this Lease, such notice of termination shall specify the date for termination of this Lease, which date shall not be more than thirty (30) days after the giving of such notice, and upon the date so specified the Term of this Lease shall expire as fully and completely as if such date were the date hereinabove set forth for the end of the Term of this Lease and Tenant shall thereupon vacate the Premises, without prejudice to any rights and remedies accrued to Landlord under this Lease prior to such termination and any Rent paid or payable by Tenant shall be adjusted as of the date of such termination. If Landlord elects or is required to rebuild and is, delayed or prevented from completing the repairs or restoration of the damage to the Premises after the occurrence of such damage or destruction by reason of force majeure, the time for Landlord to commence or complete repairs shall be extended for the period of force majeure. In the event of repair, reconstruction and restoration as herein provided, the Fixed Rent provided to be paid under this Lease shall be abated proportionately based upon the extent to which Tenant's use of the Premises is impaired during the period for such repair, reconstruction or restoration.

 12.2 Extent of Landlord's Obligation to Restore. If Landlord is required or elects to restore the Premises or such portion thereof which has been destroyed as provided in this Section 12, Landlord shall not be required to restore Tenant's personal property, machinery, furniture or equipment, such excluded items being the sole responsibility of Tenant to restore. Tenant shall not be entitled to any compensation or damages from Landlord for the loss of the use of the whole or any part of the Premises, its tenant improvements, alterations, modifications or additions made to the Premises or Tenant's personal property, or any inconvenience or annoyance occasioned by such damage, repair, reconstruction or restoration, except as may be otherwise provided in Section 12.1 above.

 12.3 Damage Near End of Term. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 12, Landlord shall not have any obligation whatsoever to repair, reconstruct or restore the Building (a) when the damage occurs during the last twelve (12) months of the

 Term, (b) to the extent that insurance proceeds are not available therefore, or (c) to the extent Landlord is unable to obtain necessary permits for the construction thereof

 13. EMINENT DOMAIN.

 13.1 Total Taking. In the event of a Total Taking, this Lease shall terminate as of the date of the taking of physical possession of the Premises. A "Total Taking" shall be defined as when (i) the entire Premises are taken or appropriated under the power of eminent domain, or (ii) when less than the entire Premises are taken or appropriated under the power of eminent domain, but where the Tenant's use of the Premises is materially interfered with. Upon the date of such taking or transfer, the Term of this Lease shall expire as fully and completely as if such date were the date hereinabove set forth for the end of the Term of this Lease and Tenant shall thereupon vacate the Premises, without prejudice to any rights and remedies accrued to Landlord under this Lease prior to such termination and any Rent paid or payable by Tenant shall be adjusted as of the date of such termination.

 13.2 Partial Taking. In the event there is a "Partial Taking," defined as a taking or appropriation under the power of eminent domain (other than by The City of Seattle) other than a Total Taking, then, unless Tenant notifies Landlord within thirty (30) days of the date of such taking or transfer that Tenant has reasonably determined that the portion of the Premises remaining is not adequate to enable Tenant to carry on the Permitted Use, the Lease shall continue in full force and effect as to the portion of the Premises remaining; provided, however, that Landlord shall proceed as promptly as is practicable to restore the Premises to an architectural unit as nearly comparable as is reasonable to the unit existing just prior to such improvements or any other alterations, modifications or additions to the Premises by Tenant. If Tenant discovers any asbestos or asbestos-containing materials during such a project and such materials are damaged as a result of Tenant's demolition or construction of tenant improvements or Tenant elects to remove such materials, such materials shall be removed by Tenant at its cost by a properly certified asbestos contractor and removed and disposed of in compliance with all Environmental Laws.

 14. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS.

 14.1 Landlord's Representation. Landlord hereby represents and warrants to Tenant that:

 (a) Landlord has not used the Premises or the Building or any portion thereof for the treatment, manufacture, storage, sale, use or disposal of any Hazardous Waste;

 (b) No Hazardous Materials are being or have been used, generated, or disposed of by Landlord on or about the Premises or the Building except in compliance with all applicable Environmental Laws;

 (c) Neither the Premises nor the Building are on any government list of contaminated properties, nor is any investigation, administrative order or notice, consent order, or agreement for litigation in existence or anticipated with respect to the Premises.

 14.2 Tenant Covenants; Indemnification: Remedial Work. Tenant shall not cause or permit any Hazardous Substances to be brought upon, kept or used in or about the Premises by Tenant, its agents, employees, contractors, sublessees or invitees, except in compliance with all Environmental Laws. If Tenant breaches its obligations set forth above or if the presence of Hazardous Substances on or about the Premises permitted results in contamination of the Premises, the term of this Lease (except for contamination of the Premises caused by the actions of Landlord, its agents or employees during the term of this Lease) then Tenant shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against any and all claims, judgments, damages, penalties, fines, costs, liabilities or losses (including, without limitation, diminution in value of the Premises), damages for the loss or restrictions on use of any space in the Premises, damages arising from any adverse impact on marketability of the Premises, and sums paid in settlement of claims, attorneys' fees, consultant fees and expert fees) which arise during or after the Term of this Lease to the extent caused by such contamination. This indemnification of Landlord by Tenant includes, without limitation, costs incurred in connection with any investigation of site conditions or any cleanup, remedial, removal or restoration work required by any federal, state or local governmental agency or political subdivision because of Hazardous Substances present in the soil or ground water on, under or about the Premises. If the presence of any Hazardous Substance on or about the Premises caused or permitted by Tenant results in any contamination of the Premises or surrounding area, or causes the Premises or surrounding area to be in violation of any Environmental Laws, Tenant shall promptly take at its sole cost and expense all actions necessary to return the Premises and surrounding area to the condition existing prior to the introduction of such Hazardous Substance; provided that Landlord's approval shall first be had and obtained, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld so long as such actions would not potentially have any material adverse long- term or short-tern effect on the Premises or surrounding area.

 14.3 Breach as Material Default. Tenant hereby specifically acknowledges and agrees that (a) each of Tenant's covenants, obligations, agreements, representations and warranties set forth in this Section 14 is a material inducement to Landlord to enter into this Lease, and (b) breach by Tenant of any of Tenant's covenants, obligations, agreements, representations and warranties set forth in this Section 14 shall constitute a material breach of this Lease by Tenant entitling Landlord to all of the rights and remedies provided to Landlord under this Lease or under applicable law.

 14.4 Reports and Information. Landlord shall make available all reports and information in Landlord's possession concerning the environmental condition of the Premises. Landlord shall grant Tenant access to the Premises to conduct environmental testing and review all of which shall be at Tenant's sole risk and expense. Prior to conducting said testing and review, Tenant shall provide Landlord with the proposed scope of testing and review for Landlord's approval, which may be granted or withheld at Landlord's sole discretion. Tenant shall repair all damage to the Premises resulting from Tenant's environmental testing and shall indemnify the Landlord from any claims of personal injury, death or property damage resulting from Tenant's environmental testing.

 14.5 Survival. Each of the covenants, agreements, obligations, representations and warranties of Tenant set forth in this Section 14 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.

 15. DEFAULT REMEDIES.

 15.1 Default. The occurrence of any of the following shall constitute a material default and breach of this Lease by Tenant:

 (a) Any failure by Tenant to pay Rent, Additional Rent or any other monetary sums required to be paid hereunder within ten (10) days of the date when due;

 (b) The abandonment or vacation of the Premises by Tenant for a period of thirty (30) days;

 (c) A failure by Tenant to observe or perform any material covenant, condition or provision of this Lease not already specifically mentioned in this Section 15, where such failure continues for thirty (30) days after written notice thereof by Landlord to Tenant; provided, however, that if the nature of the default is such that the same cannot reasonably be cured within said thirty (30) day period, Tenant shall not be deemed to be in default if Tenant shall within such period commence such cure and thereafter diligently prosecute the same to completion within ninety (90) days thereafter and further provided that such period of time shall not be so extended as to subject Landlord to criminal liability;

 15.2 Remedies. In the event of any such default or breach by Tenant, Landlord may, at any time thereafter without limiting Landlord in the exercise of any right or remedy at law or in equity which Landlord may have by reason of such default or breach:

 (a) Maintain this Lease in full force and effect and recover the Rent, Additional Rent and other monetary charges as they become due, without terminating Tenant's right to possession irrespective of whether Tenant shall have abandoned the Premises. In the event Landlord elects not to terminate this Lease, Landlord shall have the right to attempt to relet the Premises at such rent and upon such conditions and for such a term, and to do all acts necessary to maintain or preserve the Premises as Landlord deems reasonable and

 necessary without being deemed to have elected to terminate this Lease, including removal of all persons and property from the Premises. Such property may be removed and stored in a public warehouse or elsewhere at the cost of and for the account of Tenant.

 (b) Terminate Tenant's right to possession by any lawful means, in which case this Lease shall terminate and Tenant shall immediately surrender possession of the Premises to Landlord. In such event Landlord shall be entitled to recover from Tenant all damages incurred by Landlord by reason of Tenant's default, including without limitation thereto, the following: (i) the worth at the time of award of any unpaid rent which had been earned at the time of such termination, plus (ii) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid rent which would have been earned after termination until the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental loss that is proved could have been reasonably avoided, plus (iii) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid rent for the balance of the term after the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental loss that is proved could be reasonably avoided, plus (iv) any other amount not duplicative of the amounts described in (i), (ii) and (iii) necessary to compensate Landlord for all the damages proximately caused by Tenant's failure to perform its obligations under this Lease or which in the ordinary course of events would be likely to result therefrom, including, without limitation, costs of reletting, tenant improvements and leasing commissions, plus (v) at Landlord's election, such other amounts in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing as may be permitted from time to time by applicable state law. Upon any such re-entry Landlord shall have the right to make any reasonable repairs, alterations or modifications to the Premises, which Landlord in its sole discretion deems reasonable and necessary. As used in (i) above, the "worth at the time of award" is computed by allowing interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date of default.

 15.3 Late Charges. Tenant hereby acknowledges that late payment by Tenant to Landlord of Rent, Additional Rent and other sums due hereunder will cause Landlord to incur costs not contemplated by this Lease, the exact amount of which will be extremely difficult to ascertain. Such costs include, but are not limited to, processing and accounting charges, and late charges which may be imposed on Landlord under any mortgage or deed of trust covering the Premises. Accordingly, if any installment of Rent or any other sum due from Tenant shall not be received by Landlord within ten (10) days after the due date, Tenant shall pay to Landlord a late charge equal to five percent (5%) of such overdue amount. The parties hereby agree that such late charge represents a fair and reasonable estimate of the costs Landlord will incur by reason of late payment by Tenant. Acceptance of such late charge by Landlord shall in no event constitute a waiver of Tenant's default with respect to such overdue amount, nor prevent Landlord from exercising any of the other rights and remedies granted hereunder. In addition to late charges, Tenant shall pay Landlord interest on the amount of any overdue Rent at an interest rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date due until paid in full.

 16. MISCELLANEOUS.

 16.1 Estoppel Certificate.

 (a) Tenant shall at any time upon not less than ten (10) days prior written notice from Landlord execute, acknowledge and deliver to Landlord a statement in writing (i) certifying that this Lease is unmodified and in full force and effect (or, if modified, stating the nature of such modification and certifying that this Lease, as so modified, is in full force and effect) and the date to which the Rent and other charges are paid in advance, if any, and (ii) acknowledging that there are not, to Tenant's knowledge, any uncured defaults on the part of Landlord hereunder, or specifying such defaults if any are claimed. Any such statement may be relied upon by any prospective purchaser or encumbrancer of the Premises.

 (b) Tenant's failure to deliver such statement within such time shall be conclusive upon Tenant (i) that this Lease is in full force and effect, without modification except as may be represented by Landlord, (ii) that there are no uncured defaults in Landlord's performance, and (iii) that not more than one month's rent has been paid in advance.

 16.2 Transfer of Landlord's Interest. In the event of a sale or conveyance by Landlord of the Premises, other than a transfer for security purposes only, this Lease shall not be affected by any such sale and Tenant agrees to attorn to the purchaser of assignee provided all Landlord's obligations hereunder are assumed in writing by the transferee.

 16.3 Limitation on Landlord's Liability. Notwithstanding any provision in this Lease to the contrary, Tenant agrees that it shall look solely to the estate and property of Landlord in the land and buildings constituting the Premises for the collection of any judgment requiring the payment of money by Landlord or for the enforcement of any other judgment or remedy against Landlord and no other assets of Landlord shall be subject to levy, execution or other procedure for the satisfaction of Tenant's remedies.

 16.4 Captions: Attachments.

 (a) The captions of the paragraphs of this Lease are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to be relevant in resolving any question of interpretation or construction of any section of this Lease.

 (b) Exhibits attached hereto, and addenda and schedules initialed by the parties, are deemed by attachment to constitute part of this Lease and are incorporated herein.

 16.5 Entire Agreement. This instrument along with any exhibits and attachments hereto constitutes the entire agreement between Landlord and Tenant relative to the Premises and this Lease and the exhibits and attachments may be altered, amended, or revoked only by an instrument in writing signed by both Landlord and Tenant. Landlord and Tenant agree hereby that all prior or contemporaneous oral agreements between and among themselves and their agents or representatives relative to the leasing of the Premises are merged in or revoked by this Lease.

 16.6 Severability. If any term or provision of this Lease shall, to any extent, be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Lease shall not be affected thereby, and each term and provision of this Lease shall be valid and be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.

 16.7 Costs of Suit.

 (a) If Tenant or Landlord shall bring any action for any relief against the other, declaratory or otherwise, arising out of this Lease, including any suit by Landlord for the recovery of rent or possession of the Premises, the losing party shall pay the prevailing party a reasonable sum for attorneys' fees which shall be deemed to have accrued on the commencement of such action and shall be paid whether or not such action is prosecuted to judgment.

 (b) Should Landlord, without fault on Landlord's part, be made a party to any litigation instituted by Tenant or by any third party against Tenant, or by or against any person holding under or using the Premises by license of Tenant, or for the foreclosure of any lien for labor or material furnished to or for Tenant or any such other person or otherwise arising out of or resulting from any act or transaction of Tenant or of any such person, Tenant covenants to save and hold Landlord harmless from any judgment rendered against Landlord or the Premises or any part thereof, and all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by Landlord in or in connection with such litigation. Should Tenant, without fault on Tenant's part, be made a party to any litigation instituted by Landlord or by any third party against Landlord, or for the foreclosure of any lien for labor or material furnished to or for Landlord or otherwise arising out of or resulting from any act or transaction of Landlord, Landlord covenants to save and hold Tenant harmless from any judgment rendered against Tenant, and all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by Tenant in or in connection with such litigation.

 16.8 Time. Time is of the essence of this Lease and each and every provision hereof.

 16.9 Binding Effect: Choice of Law. The parties hereto agree that all provisions hereof are to be construed as both covenants and conditions as though the words importing such covenants and conditions were used in each separate paragraph hereof Subject to any provisions hereof restricting assignment or subletting by Tenant and all of the provisions hereof shall bind and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, legal representatives, permitted successors and assigns. This Lease shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington.

 16.10 Waiver. No covenant, term or condition or the breach thereof shall be deemed waived, except by written consent of the party against whom the waiver is claimed, and any waiver of the breach of any covenant, term or condition shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other covenant, tern or condition. Acceptance by Landlord of any performance by Tenant after the time the same shall have become due shall not constitute a waiver by Landlord of the breach or default of any covenant, term or condition unless otherwise expressly agreed to by Landlord in writing.

 16.11 Surrender of Premises. The voluntary or other surrender of this Lease by Tenant, or a mutual cancellation thereof, shall not work as a merger, and shall, at the option of the Landlord, terminate all or any existing subleases or subtenancies, or may, at the option of Landlord, operate as an assignment to it of any or all such subleases or subtenancies.

 16.12 Holding Over. If Tenant remains in possession of all or any part of the Premises after the expiration of the term hereof, with or without the express or implied consent of Landlord, such tenancy shall be from month to month only, and not a renewal hereof or an extension for any further term, and in such case. Tenant shall pay Landlord rent in an amount equal to One Hundred Fifty Percent (150%) of the then current Fixed Rent for the entire time Tenant thus remains in possession and Tenant shall hold Landlord harmless from all damages resulting from Tenant's failure to surrender the Premises or any portion thereof, including, without limitation, claims, made by a succeeding tenant resulting from Tenant's failure to surrender the Premises or any portion thereof All provisions of this Lease, except those pertaining to the amount of Fixed Rent payable and Term, shall apply to such month-to-month tenancy.

 16.13 Amendments: Waiver. No modification or amendment of this Lease may be made except by written agreement signed by Landlord and Tenant, or as may be otherwise provided in this Lease.

 16.14 Interest on Past Due Obligations. Except as expressly herein provided, any amount due to Landlord not paid when due shall bear interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum, from the date due until paid. Payment of such interest shall not excuse or cure any default by Tenant under this Lease.

 16.15 Notices. All notices or requests required or permitted under this Lease shall be in writing, shall be personally delivered or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or by facsimile transmission and shall be deemed to have been given when so delivered mailed or faxed (provided that the fax machine has issued a printed confirmation of receipt) irrespective of whether such notice or request is actually received by the addressee. All notices or requests shall be send as follows:

 If to Landlord: T&L Enterprises 5442 45th Ave. W Seattle, WA 98199

 If to Tenant: Fleets & Facilities Department Attention: Property Management 700 5th Avenue, Suite 5200 Seattle, WA 98124-4689

 Either party may change the address to which notices shall be sent by notice to the other party.

 16.16 Fair Construction. The provisions of this Lease shall be construed as a whole according to their common meaning not strictly for or against any party and consistent with the provisions contained herein in order to achieve the objectives and purposes of this Lease. Each party hereto and its counsel has reviewed and revised this Lease and agrees that the normal rules of construction to the effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall not be employed in the interpretation of this Lease.

 16.17 Authority. Each party represents to the other that the person signing this Lease on its behalf is properly authorized to do so.

 16.18 Assignment and Subletting.

 (a) Landlord's Consent Required. Tenant shall not assign, sublet or encumber the Premises or this Lease or any interest therein, whether voluntarily or by operation of law, or allow any other person or entity to use or occupy the Premises without the prior written consent of Landlord. Any proposed assignment or sublease shall require the express written approval of the Landlord which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed so long as there is full compliance with this Section 16.18. Tenant shall deliver the following to Landlord in connection with any such request:

 (i) True and complete copy of the proposed sublease, assignment and all side letters or other agreements pertaining thereto;

 (ii) Current financial statements, including income and expense statements and balance sheets, or other adequate financial information, for the then current year-to-date and two most recent years for the prospective subleassee or assignee; and

 (iii) Current credit report from a recognized credit agency identifying the credit history of the prospective sublessee or assignee.

 Landlord's decision with regard to acceptance or rejection of a sublease or assignment shall be given in writing within fifteen (15) days after delivery of the items specified in this Section 16.18.

 (b) Continued Responsibility. Regardless of any approved assignment or sublease of this Lease, Tenant shall not be released from liability. However, in the event of a default by any such assignee or sublessee, Landlord shall give Tenant notice of the default, shall accept cure of the default by Tenant within ten (10) days after such notice and shall permit Tenant to reenter and repossess the Premises for the then unelapsed portion of the Lease Term subject to all of the provisions of this Lease.

 (c) Share in Increased Rent. In the event Landlord approves a sublease of the Premises and such sublease provides for rent which exceeds the Fixed Rent set forth in Section 3.1, the amount of such excess shall be divided equally between Tenant and Landlord. Landlord's share of such excess shall be paid immediately upon receipt from the subtenant.

 17. DEFINITIONS. As used in this Lease, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:

 "Additional Rent" means all amounts which Tenant is required to pay Landlord pursuant to this Lease (other than Fixed Rent).

 "Building" means the building located on the Premises are located consisting of approximately 12,566 square feet comprised of: (1) 2,016 square feet of office space on the first floor; (2) 2,016 square feet of office space on the second floor; (3) 1,770 square feet of storage space on the first floor; (4) 1,314 square feet of cooler space on the first floor; and (5) 5,450 square feet of shop space, located at 1318 North 128th Street, Seattle, Washington.

 "Commencement Date" means the day the Lease Term commences as set forth in Section 2.1.

 "Environmental Law" means, as amended from time to time, the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 42 U.S.C. Section 6901 et seq., Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. Section 9601 et seq., Federal Hazardous Materials Transportation Control Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. Section 1801 et seq., Federal Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 7401 et seq., Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Federal Water Act of 1977, 93 U.S.C. Section 1 25 1 et seq., Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, Federal Pesticide Act of 1 978, 7 U.S.C. Section 136 et seq., Federal Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 2601 et seq., Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 300f et seq., Washington Water Pollution Control Act, RCW Chapter 90.48, Washington Clean Air Act, RCW Chapter 70.94, Washington Solid Waste Management Recovery and Recycling Act, RCW Chapter 70.95, Washington Hazardous Waste Management Act, RCW Chapter 70.105, Washington Hazardous Waste Fees Act, RCW Chapter 70.95E, Washington Model Toxics Control Act, RCW Chapter 70.105D, Washington Nuclear Energy and Radiation Act, RCW Chapter 70.98, Washington Radioactive Waste Storage and Transportation Act, RCW Chapter 70.99,

 Washington Underground Petroleum Storage Tanks Act, RCW Chapter 70.148, and any regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time.

 "Hazardous Substance" means any matter including petroleum products and by-products, asbestos, infectious waste and any other materials, which is now or hereafter designated as a hazardous substance pursuant to Section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. 9601, et seq., or that is now or hereafter regulated by applicable Environmental Laws.

 "Law" means any constitution, statute, ordinance, regulation, rule, resolution, judicial decision, administrative order or other requirement of federal, state, county, municipal or other governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over the parties or the Premises, or both, in effect either at the time of execution of this Lease or at any time during the Term, including without limitation, any regulation or order of a quasi-official entity or body (e.g., board of fire examiners or public utilities); all rules, laws and regulations arising under The Americans with Disabilities Act and the regulations issued thereunder by the United States Department of Justice.

 "Lease Year" means each succeeding year of the Term, commencing with the Commencement Date and ending with the date which is one (1) day less than one (1) year later.

 "Legal Requirements" means all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations and other governmental rules, orders and determinations now or hereafter in effect, whether or not presently contemplated, applicable to the Premises, or its ownership, operation, use or possession, including (without limitation), all those relating to building codes, zoning or other land use matters, The Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, life safety requirements and environmental compliance with respect to the handling, treatment, storage, disposal, discharge, use and transportation of Hazardous Substances.

 "Premises" means the real property legally described in Exhibit A together with all improvements now or hereafter located thereon, including, but not limited to, the Building.

 "Rent" means the sum of Fixed Rent and Additional Rent, each as defined herein.

 "Taxes" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2 of this Lease.

 "Term" means the period beginning on the Commencement Date and terminating on that date which is three (3) Lease Years from the Commencement Date.

 "Utilities" means all utilities and services famished to the Premises, including, without limitation, gas, electricity, water, sewer, garbage collection, janitorial and telephone service.

 18. BROKERS: AGENCY DISCLOSURE.

 18.1 Brokers. Landlord and Tenant each represent and warrant to the other that neither is represented by any broker, agent or finder with respect to this Lease in any manner.

 18.2 Agency Disclosure. Each party signing this document confirms that prior oral and/or written disclosure of agency was provided to it in this transaction as required by WAC 308-124D- 040.12.

 EXHIBIT A

 Certain real property situated in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, and more particularly described as follows:

 King County Tax Parcel ID Number 192604-9292 Taxlot 292 consisting of the east 250 feet of the west 945 feet of that portion of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 19, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M., lying north of North 128th Street; EXCEPT the North 35 feet thereof condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 612752 for North 130th Street as provided in Ordinance No. 92471 of the City of Seattle.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this Lease the date and year first above written.

 LANDLORD

 T&L Enterprises, a Washington partnership

 By:

 By:

 TENANT

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:

 Brenda Bauer

 Fleets & Facilities Director

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day personally appeared before me MICHAEL L. TORRE and LARRY O. LORENZ, to me known to be the _______________ and ______________ of T&L ENTERPRISES, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that they was authorized to execute the same instrument.

 GIVEN under my hand and official seal this _____ day of _______________, 2006.

 (print notary's name)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at .

 My commission expires: .

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day personally appeared before me BRENDA BAUER, to me known to be the FLEETS & FACILITIES DIRECTOR of the CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that they was authorized to execute the same instrument.

 GIVEN under my hand and official seal this _____ day of _______________, 2006.

 (print notary's name)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at .

 My commission expires: .

 1153251.1

 1153251.1

 Table of Contents

 (continued)

 Page

 -iii-

 1153251.1

 Table of Contents

 Page

 -26-

```
