

********

**Council Bill Number: 115624**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122164**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Director of the Mayor's Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs to purchase and accept an easement in gross and related easement agreement with the Urban League Village LLC, providing free public access to the Northwest African American Museum and free use by the City of the meeting facilities at the Colman School property for a period of fifteen years.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 24, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 28, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 27, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 10, 2006
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** NON-PROFIT-ORGANIZATIONS, BUILDINGS, OFFICE-FACILITIES, FUNDS, BUDGET, MUSEUMS, AFRICAN-AMERICANS, CULTURAL-FACILITIES, CENTRAL-AREA, EASEMENTS, MEETINGS, EVENTS

**Fiscal Note:**115624

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Director of the Mayor's Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs to purchase and accept an easement in gross and related easement agreement with the Urban League Village LLC, providing free public access to the Northwest African American Museum and free use by the City of the meeting facilities at the Colman School property for a period of fifteen years.

 WHEREAS, the Urban League Village, LLC owns the Colman School property and is redeveloping it to provide mixed-income housing rental units, community meeting facilities, and the Northwest African American Museum; and

 WHEREAS, the City has a public interest in supporting facilities that celebrate Seattle's culturally rich and artistically diverse communities; and

 WHEREAS, the City has a public interest in ensuring its citizens have affordable access to Seattle's cultural and artistic facilities; and

 WHEREAS, the City has a need for meeting space in the Judkins Park neighborhood for official City meetings and other public functions;

 WHEREAS, the 2006 Adopted Budget appropriated $1,000,000 from the Cumulative Reserve Subfund Unrestricted Subaccount for the Colman School -Northwest African American Museum project in the Fleets and Facilities 2006-2011 Capital Improvement Program; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of the Mayor's Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs ("Director") is authorized to purchase and accept, on behalf of the City of Seattle, an Easement in Gross for City and Public Use of the Colman School Meeting Facilities and Northwest African American Museum ("Easement") from the Urban League Village, LLC substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 2, and is authorized to execute and enter into the Easement Agreement ("Agreement") substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1. The Director is authorized to make such additions, modifications or deletions to the Easement or Agreement as the Director deems to be in the best interest of the City. The Director is further authorized to enter into such agreements and execute such documents (including without limitation an escrow agreement) as the Director deems necessary to effectuate the transaction contemplated by this ordinance.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after the passage of the ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President _______________ of the City Council

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Agreement Between the City of Seattle and the Urban League Village, LLC Regarding the Easement in Gross for City and Public Use of Facilities at the Colman School and the Northwest African American Museum.

 Attachment 2: Easement in Gross for City and Public Use of Facilities at the Colman School and the Northwest African American Museum.

 Jill Simmons

 OACA Purchase of Colman School Easement

 May 29, 2006

 version 1a

 1

 ATTACHMENT 1

 AGREEMENT

 Between

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 and

 THE URBAN LEAGUE VILLAGE, LLC

 Regarding

 EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR CITY AND PUBLIC USE OF FACILITIES AT THE COLMAN SCHOOL AND THE NORTHWEST AFRICAN AMERICAN MUSEUM

 This Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into by and between the City of Seattle ("City"), a first class city of the State of Washington, acting by and through the Mayor's Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs ("Department"), and the Urban League Village, LLC ("Urban League"), a Washington public benefit corporation.

 1. RECITALS

 1.1 WHEREAS, the Urban League owns the Colman School building and is redeveloping it to provide mixed-income housing rental units, community meeting facilities, and the Northwest African American Museum; and

 1.2 WHEREAS, the City has a public interest in supporting facilities that celebrate Seattle's culturally rich and artistically diverse communities; and

 1.3 WHEREAS, the City has a public interest in ensuring its citizens have affordable access to Seattle's cultural and artistic facilities; and

 1.4 WHEREAS, the City has a need for meeting space in the Judkins Park neighborhood for official City meetings and other functions;

 NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto covenant, promise and agree as follows:

 2. EFFECTIVE DATE

 This Agreement shall be effective when fully executed by the parties following approval by the Seattle City Council, and will remain in effect until the limited term Easement in Gross for City and Public Use of Facilities at the Colman School and the Northwest African American Museum described in Section 3 expires, unless amended by both parties.

 3. GRANT OF EASEMENT FOR CITY AND PUBLIC USE OF THE MUSEUM AND MEETING FACILITIES

 By this Agreement, the Department, on behalf of the City, purchases a limited term Easement in Gross for City and Public Use of Facilities at the Colman School and the Northwest African American Museum ("Easement") from the Urban League for One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00). The City shall pay for the easement in three installments on August 1, 2006, October 1, 2006, and December 1, 2006. The Urban League grants this Easement, which shall encumber the property described in the Grant of Easement, Exhibit B to this Agreement, , and which shall provide a fifteen (15) year term of limited free public and City use of the Colman School Property under the terms specified in Section 3.1-3.4 below.

 3.1 Public Use. The Urban League grants and guarantees the public one free day per month where no charge shall be imposed, or donation shall be requested, for admission to the Northwest African American Museum ("Museum"), as shown in the floor plan in Exhibit A. Free public admission on one day per month shall continue for the duration of the fifteen (15) year term set out in the Grant of Easement attached as B. The term will begin on the date when the Urban League opens the Museum in the Colman School and will terminate fifteen (15) full years after that date or upon termination of the Easement under the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The day of free admission shall be determined by the Museum, but shall be consistent from month to month. Notice of free admission shall be conspicuously displayed at or near the entrance to the Colman School building and Museum for at least one week before each free admission day. The Urban League shall provide notice of the free public day in its promotional materials.

 3.2 City Use. The Urban League grants and guarantees the City, or its designee, free use of the Colman School Meeting Facilities ("Meeting Facilities"), as shown in the floor plan in Exhibit A, three (3) times per calendar year for the duration of the fifteen (15) year term set out in the Deed Granting Easement attached as Exhibit B. The term will begin on the date of the Meeting Facilities' opening and will terminate fifteen (15) full years after that date or upon termination of the Easement under the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The City's use of the Meeting Facilities is subject to the following conditions:

 1. The City, or its designee, shall contact the Urban League to reserve the Meeting Facilities for an event. Whenever possible, the City will contact the Urban League at least thirty (30) days before the event date. The City, or its designee, shall make all efforts to work with the Urban League to schedule meeting times that are in the interest of both parties. When the City confirms a reservation for use of the Meeting Facilities, the City, or its designee, shall have used one (1) of the uses allowed in this Section whether or not the use is cancelled, unless notice of cancellation is given to the Urban League at least thirty (30) days in advance.

 2. If the City, or its designee, does not use the full three (3) uses in any year, then the balance shall not carry forward into the following year.

 3. The City, or its designee, shall observe any reasonable and lawful policies adopted by the Urban League governing the manner of use of the Meeting Facilities. The City, or its designee, shall be responsible for any cleaning and refuse removal caused by the City's use of the Meeting Facilities that would not normally be performed by the Urban League's janitorial services. The City, or its designee, shall be liable for any damage to the Meeting Facilities or personal property of the Urban League, other than normal wear and tear, caused by the negligent or intentional acts of the City, or its designee or invitees, in connection with the exercise of the City's rights under this Section.

 3.3 The Urban League is solely responsible for managing the obligations of this Agreement, subject to the terms of this Agreement and the following conditions:

 1. The Urban League may establish policies that guide hours of operation, codes of conduct, and other procedures necessary to efficiently and fairly operate the Museum and Meeting Facilities. However, the Urban League's procedures shall maximize public access to the Museum and Meeting Facilities to the fullest extent possible.

 2. The Urban League may require that the City, or its designee, sign a use agreement for the Meeting Facilities, provided that the use agreement is designed to ensure safe and equitable access to the Meeting Facilities.

 3. In all uses of the Meeting Facilities pursuant to the Easement and this Agreement, the Urban League shall provide convenient and safe ingress and egress to the space being used and to appurtenant spaces normally used in connection with such space, including but not limited to restrooms, the lobby and other common areas, all in such manner as to make the space available in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and to permit its use to comply with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and permits.

 4. The Urban League will make reasonable efforts to accommodate the City's, or its designee's, scheduling requests pursuant to Section 3.2.1. If the requested date and time are available, the Urban League shall reserve the Meeting Facilities for the City. The Urban League shall not cancel a City reservation without prior agreement from the City. If the date and time requested are not available, the Urban League shall offer an equivalent date and time that is within thirty (30) days of the date originally requested, unless otherwise negotiated with the City.

 5. The City's right to free uses will expire at the end of the fifteen (15) year period set forth above, provided, that if the Urban League fails to honor the City's rights to use under Section 3.2, and the Urban League has been given notice of such failure within ninety (90) days of occurrence, then the City's rights to such uses shall continue until the Urban League has honored the uses.

 3.4 The Urban League will provide annual reports detailing its compliance with this Agreement for the previous year to the Department, no later than sixty (60) days after the close of the calendar year. The annual report shall be in such form and with such reasonable supporting documents as is acceptable to the City. The annual report shall include, among other things, the quantity of uses by the City, or its designee, for which credit is claimed pursuant to this Agreement.

 4. OBLIGATIONS TO BE SECURED BY RECORDED GRANT OF EASEMENT

 The Urban League's obligations and grant of the Easement pursuant to this Agreement will be secured by its execution of a Grant of Easement in Gross for City and Public Use of Facilities at the Colman School and the Northwest African American Museum, duly recorded with King County and substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.

 5. CONSTRUCTION, TAXES, MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION RESPONSIBILITIES AND COST

 The Urban League shall have sole responsibility for construction, maintenance and operation of the Museum and the Meeting Facilities in the Colman School Building. This responsibility includes, but is not limited to, the payment of any and all taxes and construction costs, and any costs associated with the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Museum, the Meeting Facilities, and the property on which they are sited. The City will not be responsible for any costs associated with construction, maintenance, or operation of the Colman School property in general, nor will the City be responsible for any costs associated with the construction, maintenance or operation of the Easement.

 In the event that the Urban League delegates any or all of its responsibilities under this Agreement, the Urban League shall enter into any agreements necessary to ensure that it fulfills its obligations under this Agreement and the Grant of Easement. Regardless of any such agreement(s) with third parties for construction, maintenance, and operation, the Urban League shall remain responsible for all obligations to the City under this Agreement.

 6. DEPARTMENT OVERSIGHT/AUDIT

 6.1 The Department shall have the right to monitor and oversee the Urban League's compliance with the requirements and conditions of this Agreement. The Urban League shall provide to the Department an annual report documenting City and public use of the Meeting Facilities and office facilities, as set forth in Section 3.4. In addition, the Urban League shall provide the Department with reasonable access to any additional information, records, and facilities that would assist the Department in monitoring the Urban League's compliance with this Agreement.

 6.2 The Urban League shall maintain books, records, documents and other evidence of accounting procedures and practices that reflect all direct and indirect costs of any nature expended in connection with the operation and management of the limited term Easement. These records shall be subject at all reasonable times to inspection, review or audit by personnel duly authorized by the Department, the City, the Office of the State Auditor, and other officials so authorized by law, rule, regulation or contract.

 7. RECOGNITION OF CITY OF SEATTLE INVOLVEMENT IN COLMAN SCHOOL PROJECT

 7.1. The Urban League agrees to acknowledge the Department as a source of support for the Colman School Project and for securing free public access to the Northwest African American Museum. Approved logos and written materials are available by contacting the Department.

 7.2. The Urban League agrees to notify the Mayor's Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs in advance of any public activities related to the initial development of the Colman School Meeting Facilities and the Northwest African American Museum, including, but not limited to, ground breaking events, dedications, and other public programs.

 8. INDEMNIFICATION

 The parties recognize that the Urban League shall have control over the operation and maintenance of the Museum and Meeting Facilities. As a result, the Urban League agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the City of Seattle, its elected officials, officers, employees and agents harmless from any and all damages, claims, liabilities, losses, and/or costs of any kind, including attorney's fees, that arise in any way from City use, City designee's use, and/or public use under the Easement, including, but not limited to, use of the Museum and the surrounding grounds and property and use of the Meeting Facilities and surrounding grounds and property. This clause applies to claims, liabilities, costs, losses, and/or damages of any kind arising out of or relating to any concurrent act or omission of the Urban League or any of its officers, employees, contractors or agents and the City or any City officer, elected official, employee or agent, provided, however, in all cases the Urban League's duty to indemnify will be limited to the extent of its own negligence; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the Urban League to indemnify the City against liability for bodily injury or damage to property caused by or resulting from the sole negligence of the City or of any of its officers, elected officials, employees, or agents. The indemnification obligation set forth in this section shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 THE PARTIES CERTIFY BY SIGNATURE BELOW THAT THIS INDEMNIFICATION PROVISION WAS INDIVIDUALLY NEGOTIATED.

 9. INSURANCE

 The Urban League shall maintain at all times during the life of this Agreement the following insurance:

 9.1. All risks property insurance, including earthquake and flood, on the Easement. The agreement of insurance shall be not less than the current replacement cost of the Easement as established upon each annual insurance policy renewal. The City of Seattle shall be an additional insured, mortgagee and loss payee with respect to the Easement as its interest may appear.

 9.2. General (premises) liability insurance on the Easement with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 each occurrence bodily injury and property damage combined single limit. The City of Seattle shall be an additional insured for primary and non- contributory limits of liability.

 The insurance described in paragraphs 9.1 and 9.2 above shall be placed with insurers having A.M. Best's ratings of not less than A- VII unless procured under the provisions of chapter 48.15 RCW and shall not be cancelled without thirty (30) days prior written notice to the City, except ten (10) days as respects non-payment of premium. Certification of insurance, including actual copies of the policy provisions that document that the City is (1) an additional insured, mortgagee and loss payee on the all risks property insurance, and (2) an additional insured for primary and non-contributory limits of the general (premises) liability insurance. A copy of all insurance required herein shall be provided to the Department no later than seven (7) days after execution of this Agreement. The Urban League shall also provide the City with documentation of the above insurance policies on an annual basis in conjunction with the reporting requirements set out in Section 3.4 and Section 6.

 10. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION

 If the Museum and/or Meeting Facilities shall be destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty when the public and/or the City, or its designee, shall have use rights remaining under the Easement granted herein, then The Urban League shall restore or rebuild the Museum or Meeting Facilities if sufficient insurance proceeds are available, and subject to its obligations to its lenders and other obligations. The use rights granted pursuant to the Easement shall apply to the rebuilt or restored Museum and/or Meeting Facilities and the term of the Easement shall be extended by a period equal to the time that use under this Easement was not available. In the alternative, if the Museum and/or the Meeting Facilities are not rebuilt or restored, or if such building or restoration does not commence within 24 months of the damage or destruction, the Urban League shall pay the City liquidated damages as described in Section 13.

 11. NONDISCRIMINATION

 The Urban League will comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle, including but not limited to Chapters 14.04, 14.10, 20.42, and 20.45 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), as they may be amended; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 12. DISPUTE RESOLUTION

 Any disputes that may arise under this Agreement shall first be resolved through amicable negotiations, if possible, between the Department and the Urban League. If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute through negotiations, the parties agree to participate in good faith in a formal mediation prior to filing a lawsuit. The mediation will be facilitated by a professional mediator agreed upon by both parties.

 13. LIQUIDATED DAMAGES

 13.1 The parties agree that the City's ability to obtain value from the Easement granted by the Urban League is conditioned upon the development, completion, opening and operation of the Museum and Meeting Facilities. As a result, in the event that the Urban League fails to open and operate the Museum and Meeting Facilities by December 31, 2012, the Urban League agrees to pay the City liquidated damages in the amount of the lesser of (a) One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) plus interest, or (b) an amount equal to the total of any purchase money already paid by the City, plus interest. Interest shall accrue from the date of payment of the purchase money until the date of repayment at the rate applied during the same period of time to the participating funds of the Consolidated Cash Portfolio of the City of Seattle. Upon receipt of the liquidated damages, this Agreement and the Easement shall be terminated.

 13.2 Additionally, in the event the Urban League ceases to fulfill its obligations as provided in this Agreement prior to the expiration of the fifteen year term of the Easement, the Urban League agrees to pay the City liquidated damages in the amount of Sixty-Five Thousand Dollars ($65,000) plus interest, accrued as described in Section 13.1, for each year remaining in the Easement term. Upon receipt of the liquidated damages, this Agreement and the Easement shall be terminated. However, the City shall work with the Urban League to make reasonable accommodations should circumstances beyond the Urban League's control make it impossible for the Urban League to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement and the Easement.

 13.3 In the event that the Urban League subsequently sells the building or property on which the Museum and Meeting Facilities are sited, and in the event that such sale results in the Urban League's inability to perform the terms of this Agreement, or in the event that that liquidated damages are due and owing as specified above, the parties agree that the liquidated damages will be a lien for the City's benefit upon the property and against any purchase money received by the Urban League.

 13.4 The City shall not pursue liquidated damages under this Section until it provides written notice to the Urban League, specifying the nature of its failure to comply with this Agreement and the Easement, and provide the Urban League with sixty (60) days following the written notice to cure the failure.

 13.5 The City's rights and remedies under this Section will be its exclusive remedy. The City's failure to exercise of any right or remedy due to the Urban League's failure to perform any covenant or condition of this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of, or alter, affect or prejudice any other right or remedy that the City may have under this section.

 14. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 The Urban League shall comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter, Municipal Code, and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 15. APPLICABLE LAW; VENUE

 This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in the Superior Court for King County.

 16. HEADINGS AND SUBHEADINGS

 The headings and subheadings used in this Agreement are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 17. EXHIBITS

 The following exhibits are incorporated by reference and are made a part of this Agreement:

 Exhibit A - Museum and Meeting Facilities Floor Plan

 Exhibit B - Grant of Easement in Gross for City and Public Use of Facilities at the Colman School and the Northwest African American Museum

 18. ASSIGNMENT

 This Agreement is personal to each of the parties hereto and neither party may assign or delegate any of its rights or obligations hereunder without first obtaining the consent of the other party, except as provided in Section 5 and to the extent that the Urban League may require a use agreement as provided in Section 3.3.2, or to the extent that the City may make a delegation or assignment to its designee as provided in Section 3.2.

 19. TRANSFER

 In the event that the Urban League transfers The Museum or Meeting Facilities or the property on which they are sited, the Urban League shall remain responsible for its obligations under this Agreement.

 20. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

 This Agreement and the exhibits attached hereto and forming a part hereof, are all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions between the parties. No verbal or written agreements or conversations between any officer, agent, associate or employee of the City and any officer, agency, employee or associate of the Urban League prior to the execution of this Agreement shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in this Agreement. Any such verbal or written agreements shall be considered unofficial information and in no way binding on either party.

 21. NOTICES

 Any notices required or permitted hereunder shall be effective when hand delivered during normal business hours or two business days after mailed, postage prepaid, to a party at the addresses set forth below.

 Mayor's Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs

 City of Seattle

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 1766

 PO Box 94748

 Seattle, WA 98124-474

 Urban League

 105 14th Avenue

 Seattle WA, 98122

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement this ______ day of __________, 2006, by having their representatives affix their signatures below.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By ___________________________________________

 Michael Killoren, Director

 Mayor's Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs

 THE URBAN LEAGUE VILLAGE, LLC

 By __________________________________________

 James Kelly, President and CEO

 Urban League Village, LLC

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for the City of Seattle)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ______________, , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared Michael Killoren, known to me to be the Director of the Mayor's Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in the certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 STATE OF )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for the Urban League of Metropolitan Seattle)

 COUNTY OF )

 On this _____ day of ______________, , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared _______________, known to me to be the President and CEO of the URBAN LEAGUE VILLAGE, LLC, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the day and year in this certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 Page 11 of 11 Attachment 1: Agreement Regarding Easement for Colman School

 ATTACHMENT 2

 RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND

 WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

 GRANT OF EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR CITY AND PUBLIC USE

 GRANTOR: Urban League Village LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company

 GRANTEE: The City of Seattle, a Washington Municipal Corporation

 Legal Description of Property Affected:

 Parcel A: Lots 1 through 3, inclusive, Block 2, Atlantic Heights, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 20 of Plats, page 28, in King County, Washington, except that portion conveyed to the State of Washington for highway by deed recorded under recording number 9006271288.

 Property B: That portion of the tract of land commonly known as Tract 17, Seattle Homestead Association Five Acre Tracts, unrecorded, which lies north of the north marginal line of Massachusetts Street, in the City of Seattle projected westward across said tract, which said tract as a whole is more particularly described as follows: Commencing 56.10 feet west of the northeast corner of Government Lot 6, Section 9, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M. in King county, Washington; thence west 211.86 feet; thence south 1020 feet more or less, to the place of beginning; except that portion conveyed to the State of Washington for Highway by deed recorded under recording number 9006271288.

 Assessor's Property Tax Parcel ID Nos: Parcel A #029900006007 and Parcel B #092404901008

 THIS GRANT OF EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR PUBLIC BENEFIT AND USE is executed this _____ day of ____________, 2006 by the Urban League Village LLC (GRANTOR), in favor of The City of Seattle, its successors and assigns ("GRANTEE") with reference to the following facts:

 Grant of Easement in Gross for Public Benefit and Use

 For and in consideration of ONE MILLION AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($1,000,000.00) in hand paid and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, GRANTOR, The Urban League Village LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, hereby grants and warrants to GRANTEE, The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation, its successors and assigns, a fifteen (15) year nonexclusive easement in gross to use the real property more particularly described above under "Legal Description of Property Affected," and referred to as "The Colman School Real Property" herein. . Such easement is intended to burden the property described for the use and benefit of the GRANTEE and the public, the scope of which use and benefit is more particularly described as follows.

 Duration, Scope, and Terms of Easement

 1. The GRANTOR grants and warrants a present interest in the Colman School Real Property to the GRANTEE for public use and benefit. The GRANTEE's actual use of this easement will begin when the GRANTOR completes and opens the Northwest African American Museum and Meeting Facilities in the Colman School. The fifteen year term of this easement shall commence on the first day the Museum and Meeting Facilities are both open.

 2. This easement in gross is intended to attach to the Colman School Real Property , and is intended to grant rights of use subject to terms more particularly described in the Agreement Regarding the Easement for City and Public Use of Museum and Meeting Facilities, referred to as the "Easement Agreement" herein. The terms of the Easement Agreement and any subsequent amendments made in writing and executed by both GRANTOR and GRANTEE are incorporated by reference into the rights granted herein.

 3. The GRANTOR grants and warrants to the GRANTEE and the public the use, access, and benefit of free admission to the Museum on one day per month for the fifteen (15) year duration of this easement according to the terms and conditions outlined in the Easement Agreement.

 4. The GRANTOR grants and warrants to the GRANTEE, or its designees, access to and free use of Meeting Facility Space for three (3) uses per year for the fifteen (15) year duration of the easement according to the terms and conditions outlined in the Easement Agreement.

 5. The GRANTEE's and the public's right to the use granted under this Grant of Easement shall have priority over any and all liens, encumbrances, leases, subleases, or other interests in the burdened property. The GRANTOR shall, at its sole cost and expense, obtain any and all consents and/or subordinations of other interests in the Colman School Real Property, including the subordination of the rights of any mortgagees, lessees, sublessees, successors and assigns as may be necessary to assure the GRANTEE its rights under this Grant of Easement and the Easement Agreement are and remain free and clear of all liens, exceptions, encumbrances or other interests affecting the rights of the public or the rights of the GRANTEE under this easement.

 6. The easements granted under this Grant of Easement run with the land and the rights, duties, covenants, restrictions, agreements, limitations and obligations herein created shall constitute covenants running with the land, shall burden the Colman School Real Property, and all such easements, covenants, restrictions, agreements, limitations and obligations contained herein shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and permitted assigns of the respective parties hereto.

 Dated this _____ day of _________, 2006.

 :

 (Grantor)

 By:

 Name:

 Title:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _______________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he signed this instrument, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute the instrument as the _______________ of _______________________________, and acknowledged it to be the free and voluntary act of said ___________________________, for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 DATED: ____________________.

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at

 Print Name:

 My commission expires:

 Page 3 of 3 Attachment 2: Grant of Easement in Gross for City and Public Use

```
