

********

**Council Bill Number: 115668**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122192**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to taxation; imposing a commercial parking tax; adding a new Chapter 5.35 to Title 5 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and amending SMC sections 5.30.010, 5.55.010, 5.55.040 A, 5.55.060 A, 5.55.150 E, 5.55.165, 5.55.220, 5.55.230 A, 5.55.260, 3.02.125 A, 6.48.020, and 5.45.090 BB in connection therewith.

**Status:** Passed as Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 7, 2006
   
**Vote:** 8-1 (No: Della)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 15, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 15, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Local Transportation Funding Package

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 24, 2006
   
**Committee:** Committee of the Whole
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** TAXES, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, PARKING

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CB 115667, 115668, 115669, 115670

**Fiscal Note:**115668

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to taxation; imposing a commercial parking tax; adding a new Chapter 5.35 to Title 5 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and amending SMC sections 5.30.010, 5.55.010, 5.55.040 A, 5.55.060 A, 5.55.150 E, 5.55.165, 5.55.220, 5.55.230 A, 5.55.260, 3.02.125 A, 6.48.020, and 5.45.090 BB in connection therewith.

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle (the "City") owns and operates a transportation system that is critical to the safety, social, and economic well-being of its residents and visitors; and

 WHEREAS, the City is responsible for more than 1,500 lane-miles of arterial streets, 150 bridges, 22 miles of retaining walls, 480 stairways, 1,000 signalized intersections, 120,000 signs, 2,000 miles of sidewalks, and 30,000 street trees, representing an economic asset of more than $8 billion; and

 WHEREAS, the majority of Seattle's bridges were built to last 60 years, with 55 years being the average age of the bridges, and with 46% in poor or fair condition; and

 WHEREAS, eight of the City's bridges have weight restrictions because they no longer meet structural standards, creating safety concerns for users and limited route choices for freight haulers and buses; and

 WHEREAS, according to national standards, 29 percent of the City's arterial streets are in either poor or fair condition; and

 WHEREAS, two years ago, the backlog of maintenance work was estimated to be $500 million and has since become larger; and

 WHEREAS, the Washington State Supreme Court in 1995 declared the City's residential street utility charge unconstitutional, reducing City revenue for transportation projects by $13 million per year; and

 WHEREAS, voters statewide approved Initiative 776 in 2002, which eliminated the Vehicle License Fee that provided $5 million per year to the City for transportation purposes; and

 WHEREAS, state-shared gas tax revenues for Seattle do not keep up with inflation due to annexations and incorporations; and

 WHEREAS, addressing the deteriorating condition of Seattle's transportation infrastructure will require a substantial annual dedication of resources beyond those currently available; and

 WHEREAS, in 2005, the City adopted Resolution 30790 approving the Transportation Strategic Plan with key themes of improving safety, preserving and maintaining transportation infrastructure, and providing mobility and access through transportation choices; and

 WHEREAS, the Alaskan Way Viaduct is scheduled to be closed to traffic within the next five years, and closing it will put an added stress on the various alternative routes into and through the city; and

 WHEREAS, a Citizens Advisory Panel has reviewed the funding required to address the identified maintenance backlog and recommended a variety of additional improvements to provide a more efficient and safer flow of pedestrians, bicycles, vehicles, transit services, and freight movement within and throughout Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, in January and May of 2006, the City sponsored five public information meetings with roundtable discussion groups in order to garner public input on transportation issues; and

 WHEREAS, there are numerous commuters who work in the city and use Seattle's transportation infrastructure; and

 WHEREAS, the City has developed a funding proposal to address the deteriorating condition of Seattle's transportation infrastructure and provide targeted system enhancements, which combines revenues generated from property taxes, a commercial parking tax, and a business transportation tax; and

 WHEREAS, in 1990, the Washington State Legislature passed legislation that was adopted as Section 208 of Chapter 42, Laws of Washington, codified at RCW 82.80.030, which authorized cities to fix and impose a tax for the act of or privilege of parking a motor vehicle in a facility operated by a commercial parking business within its incorporated boundaries; and

 WHEREAS, there are numerous commercial parking businesses operating within the City providing parking for which a fee is paid; and

 WHEREAS, the proceeds of the commercial parking tax herein imposed shall be used strictly for transportation purposes in accordance with RCW 82.80.070; and

 WHEREAS, the City wishes to impose a commercial parking tax as authorized by RCW 82.80.030 to provide an equitable means of generating revenue to support the City's transportation system, and to reduce the existing Public Garage and Parking Lot License fee that is currently imposed by SMC Chapter 6.48; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Effective July 1, 2007, a new Chapter 5.35, "Commercial Parking Tax," is added to Title 5 of the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 5.35.010 Administrative Provisions.

 All of the provisions contained in Chapter 5.55 of the Seattle Municipal Code shall have full force and application with respect to taxes imposed under the provisions of this chapter except as may be expressly stated to the contrary herein.

 5.35.020 Definitions.

 The definitions contained in Chapter 5.30 of the Seattle Municipal Code shall be fully applicable to this chapter except as may be expressly stated to the contrary herein. The following additional definitions shall apply throughout this chapter:

 A. "Commercial parking business" means the ownership, lease, operation, or management of a commercial parking lot in which fees are charged for the act or privilege of parking motor vehicles.

 B. "Commercial parking lot" means a covered or uncovered area with stalls used for the purpose of parking motor vehicles for a fee.

 C. "Parking tax" means the commercial parking tax imposed by this chapter.

 5.35.030 Parking Tax Imposed.

 A. Pursuant to RCW 82.80.030, there is imposed on every person a tax for the act or privilege of parking a motor vehicle in a commercial parking lot within the City that is operated by a commercial parking business. The privilege of parking includes the right to park, whether or not the right is exercised.

 B. The amount of the parking tax shall be equal to the parking fee multiplied by the parking tax rate. Effective July 1, 2007, through June 30, 2008, the parking tax rate is imposed at five percent (0.05). Effective July 1, 2008, through June 30, 2009, the parking tax rate is imposed at seven and one half percent (0.075). Effective July 1, 2009, the parking tax rate is imposed at ten percent (0.10).

 5.35.040 Measure of Tax: Parking Fee.

 A. The measure of the parking tax is the parking fee. Parking fee means the fee paid or due for the act or privilege of parking a motor vehicle in a commercial parking lot.

 B. If, in a lease of nonresidential space, a parking fee is combined with other payments, or is otherwise not separately stated, or does not result from an arm's length transaction, or does not fairly reflect the value of the act or privilege of parking, the parking fee shall be determined by the Director according to rules promulgated by the Director to establish the parking fee based on the fair market value of the act or privilege of parking.

 C. It shall be conclusively presumed that the posted parking prices do not include the parking tax unless all the following conditions are met:

 1. The fee is advertised as including the tax or that the commercial parking business is paying the tax;

 2. The words "tax included" are stated immediately following the advertised or posted prices in print size at least half as large as the advertised or posted prices print size; and

 3. All advertised or posted parking prices and the words "tax included" are stated in the same medium, whether oral or visual, and if oral, in substantially the same inflection and volume.

 If these conditions are satisfied, then price lists, reader boards, and other price information mediums need not show separately the parking fee and the actual amount of commercial parking tax being collected.

 5.35.050 Exemptions from the Parking Tax.

 The following are exempt from the parking tax:

 A. Parking by a person in a stall reserved exclusively for that person for a period of 30 days or longer.

 B. Parking of a motor vehicle owned or controlled by a natural person in a stall provided with that person's residence.

 C. Parking at stadiums and exhibition centers which the City is precluded from taxing pursuant to RCW 36.38.040.

 D. Parking on City of Seattle streets.

 5.35.060 Collection and Remittance Of Tax.

 A commercial parking business or person acting on its behalf shall collect the amount of the parking tax from the person paying the parking fee at the time payment is made. The parking tax shall be stated separately from the parking fee on all instruments evidencing the parking fee. Except when all requirements of section 5.35.040 B are satisfied, it shall be conclusively presumed that the parking fee does not include the parking tax. The presumption is not overcome by any oral or written agreement between the parties.

 The person receiving payment of the parking fee shall remit the parking tax to the Director according to the provisions contained in SMC Chapter 5.55. The parking tax shall be deemed held in trust by the person required to collect the same until remitted to the Director. Any person who fails to collect the parking tax, or who collects the parking tax but fails to remit the parking tax to the Director, shall be liable to the City for the amount of such tax. Such person shall, unless the remittance is made as required in this section, be guilty of a violation of this chapter whether such failure be the result of the person's own act or the result of acts or conditions beyond its control.

 5.35.070 Use Of Revenues.

 The proceeds of the tax imposed herein shall be used for transportation purposes in accordance with RCW 82.80.070. None of the proceeds of the tax imposed herein shall be used to fund the major repair or replacement, including but not limited to replacement with a waterfront tunnel, of the Alaskan Way Viaduct or the seawall located to the west of Alaskan Way, unless appropriated for those purposes by ordinance. To the extent permitted by applicable law the City may issue bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness payable wholly or in part from the parking tax and may pledge and may apply such tax to the payment of principal of, interest on, and premium (if any) on such bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness and to the payment of costs associated with them.

 5.35.080 Receipts To Transportation Fund.

 All receipts from the parking tax shall be placed in and segregated within the Transportation Fund. These receipts may be temporarily deposited or invested in such manner as may be lawful for the investment of City money and interest and other earnings shall be deposited in the Transportation Fund.

 Section 2. Effective July 1, 2007, Section 5.30.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.30.010 Definition provisions.

 The definitions contained in this chapter shall apply to the following chapters of the Seattle Municipal Code: Chapters 5.32 (Amusement Devices), 5.35 (Commercial Parking Taxes), 5.40 (Admission Taxes), 5.45 (Business and Occupation Taxes), 5.48 (Utility Taxes), 5.52 (Gambling Taxes), and 5.55 (Administrative Provisions) unless expressly provided for otherwise therein, and shall also apply to other chapters and sections of the Seattle Municipal Code in the manner and to the extent as expressly indicated in each chapter or section. Words in the singular number shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Words in one gender shall include both genders.

 Section 3. Effective July 1, 2007, Section 5.55.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.55.010 Application of chapter stated.

 Unless expressly stated to the contrary in each chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall apply with respect to the licenses and taxes imposed under this chapter and SMC Chapters 5.32 (Amusement Devices), 5.35 (Commercial Parking Taxes), 5.40 (Admission Taxes), 5.45 (Business and Occupation Tax), 5.48 (Utility Tax), and 5.52 (Gambling Tax) and under other titles, chapters, and sections in such manner and to such extent as indicated in each such title, chapter or section.

 Section 4. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsection 5.55.040 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 A. Other than any annual license fee or registration fee assessed under this chapter, the tax imposed by SMC Chapters 5.32 (Amusement Devices), 5.35 (Commercial Parking Taxes) 5.40 (Admission Taxes), 5.45 (Business and Occupation Tax), 5.48 (Utility Tax), and 5.52 (Gambling Tax), shall be due and payable in quarterly installments. At the Director's discretion, businesses may be assigned to a monthly or annual reporting period depending on the tax amount owing or type of tax. Taxes imposed by SMC Section 5.52.030(A)(2) and (B)(2) for punchboards and pulltabs shall be due and payable in monthly installments. Tax payments are due on or before the last day of the next month following the end of the assigned reporting period covered by the return.

 Section 5. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsection 5.55.060 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 A. Every person liable for any fee or tax imposed by this chapter, SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.35, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, and 5.52 shall keep and preserve, for a period of five (5) years after filing a tax return, such records as may be necessary to determine the amount of any fee or tax for which the person may be liable; which records shall include copies of all federal income tax and state tax returns and reports made by the person. All places of business, books, records, papers, invoices, ticket stubs, vendor lists, gambling games and payout information, inventories, stocks of merchandise, and other data, including federal income tax and state tax returns, and reports needed to determine the accuracy of any taxes due, shall be open for inspection or examination at any time by the Director or a duly authorized agent. Every person's business premises shall be open for inspection or examination by the Director or a duly authorized agent.

 Section 6. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsection 5.55.150 E of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 E. The Hearing Examiner shall ascertain the correct amount of the tax, fee, interest, or penalty due either by affirming, reversing, or modifying an action of the Director. Reversal or modification is proper if the Director's assessment or refund denial violates the terms of this chapter, or SMC Chapters 5.30, 5.32, 5.35, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, or 5.52.

 Section 7. Effective July 1, 2007, Section 5.55.165 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.55.165 Director of Finance to make rules.

 The Director of Finance shall have the power and it shall be his or her duty, from time to time, to adopt, publish and enforce rules and regulations not inconsistent with this chapter, SMC Chapters 5.30, 5.32, 5.35, 5.40, 5.44, 5.48, 5.52, or with law for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of such chapters, and it shall be unlawful to violate or fail to comply with, any such rule or regulation.

 Section 8. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsections 5.55.220 A and B of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 A. It shall be unlawful for any person subject to the provisions of this chapter, or SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.35, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, and 5.52:

 1. To violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter, SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.35,5.40, 5.45, 5.48, and 5.52, or any lawful rule or regulation adopted by the Director;

 2. To make or manufacture any license required by this chapter except upon authority of the Director;

 3. To make any false statement on any license application or tax return;

 4. To aid or abet any person in any attempt to evade payment of a license fee or tax;

 5. To refuse admission to the Director to inspect the premises and/or records as required by this Chapter, or to otherwise interfere with the Director in the performance of duties imposed by SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.35, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, and 5.52;

 6. To fail to appear or testify in response to a subpoena issued pursuant to SMC 3.02.120 in any proceeding to determine compliance with this chapter and SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.35, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48 and 5.52;

 7. To testify falsely in any investigation, audit, or proceeding conducted pursuant to this chapter; or

 8. In any manner, to hinder or delay the City or any of its officers in carrying out the provisions of this chapter or SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.35, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48, and 5.52.

 B. Each violation of or failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter, or SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.35,5.40, 5.45, 5.48, or 5.52 shall constitute a separate offense. Any person who commits an act defined in subsection A of this section is guilty of a gross misdemeanor, punishable in accordance with SMC 12A.02.070. The provisions of chapters 12A.02 and 12A.045 of the Seattle Municipal Code apply to the offenses defined in subsection A of this section except that liability is absolute and none of the mental states described in SMC 12A.04.030 need be proved.

 Section 9. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsection 5.55.230 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 A. The Director, or his or her designee, shall have the power and authority to suspend or revoke any business license or amusement device license issued under the provisions of this chapter. The Director, or his or her designee, shall notify such licensee in writing by certified mail of the suspension or revocation of his or her license and the grounds therefore. Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked based on one or more of the following grounds:

 1. The license was procured by fraud or false representation of fact.

 2. The licensee has failed to comply with any provisions of this chapter.

 3. The licensee has failed to comply with any provisions of SMC Chapters 5.32, 5.35, 5.40, 5.45, 5.48 or 5.52.

 4. The licensee is in default in any payment of any license fee or tax under Title 5 or Title 6.

 Section 10. Effective July 1, 2007, Section 5.55.260 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.55.260 Personal liability of persons in control of admission and commercial parking taxes.

 In addition to persons liable for tax pursuant to SMC Section s 5.35.060 and 5.40.070:

 A. Any individual who is responsible for collecting, accounting for, or paying over the (1) commercial parking tax imposed by SMC 5.35, or (2) admission tax imposed by SMC Chapter 5.40, and who willfully fails to collect, account for, or pay over such tax, or willfully attempts to evade or defeat such tax or the payment thereof, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be liable to pay the total amount of the tax evaded, not collected, or not accounted for and paid over.

 B. An individual is responsible for collecting, accounting for, or paying over the tax if he has control over, or supervision of, the receipt of admissions charges or parking fees, the filing of returns, or the remittance of the tax.

 C. For purposes of this section, "willfully" means that the failure was the result of an intentional, conscious, and voluntary course of action.

 D. An individual shall be liable only for taxes which became due during the period he was required to collect, account for, and pay over the tax, plus interest and penalties on the tax.

 E. An individual is not liable under this section if the failure to collect, account for, or pay over the tax is due to reasons beyond his control, as determined by rules promulgated by the Director of Finance.

 F. The Director shall assess the liability in the same manner as a tax deficiency pursuant to SMC 5.55.095 and shall have the right of review provided by SMC 5.55.140. If not appealed within the time provided in section SMC 5.55.140, the assessment is final and no refund request may be made for the period covered in the assessment.

 G. Once established, liability for the tax is joint and several. The Director may collect the total amount of tax, but not more, either from individuals liable under this section or persons liable under SMC 5.40.070 or SMC 5.35.060, or both. This section does not relieve persons of other tax liabilities or otherwise impair other tax collection remedies afforded by law.

 Section 11. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsection 6.48.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 6.48.020 License required -- Fee.

 It is unlawful for any person to own, operate, or maintain a public garage or parking lot without first having obtained a license to do so. The fee for such license is hereby fixed at the rate of ~~Ninety Dollars ($90)~~Six Dollars ($6) per year for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of floor or ground space contained in such parking garage or parking lot and used for parking or storage purposes.

 Section 12. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsection 3.02.125 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 3.02.125 Hearing examiner filing fees.

 A. Filing fees for hearings before the City Hearing Examiner are as follows:

 Basis for Hearing Fee

 Admission Tax Deficiency (Ch. 5.40) $ 50

 Admission Tax, Revocation of Exemption (Sec. 5.40.085) No fee

 Ballard Avenue Landmark District (Ch. 25.16) $ 50

 Business License Tax Deficiency (Ch. 5.45) 50

 Cable Television Ordinance (Ch. 21.60) No fee

 Columbia City Landmark District (Ch. 25.20) 50

Commercial Parking TaxDeficiency (Ch. 5.35) $ 50

 Design Decision in Multiple Residence -- Mixed Density Zone (Ch. 24.38) 50

 Fair Employment Practices Ordinance (Ch. 14.04) No fee

 Floating Home Moorages (Ch. 7.20) 50 /petitioner; maximum fee 150

 Gambling Tax Deficiency (Ch. 5.52) 50

 Grading Ordinance (Title 22, Subtitle VIII) 50

 Harvard/Belmont Landmark District (Ch. 25.22) 50

 Housing Code (Ch. 22.206) 50

 Land Use Code Enforcement (Ch. 23.90) 50

 Landmark Preservation Controls and Incentives (Sec. 25.12.530) No fee

 Landmarks Preservation (Sec. 25.12.740 and Sec. 25.12.835) 50

 License Code (Title 6, Subtitle I) 50

 Master Use Permit (Ch. 23.76) 50

 Noise Ordinance (Ch. 25.08) 50

 Open Housing Ordinance (Ch. 14.08) No fee

 Pike Place Market Historical District (Ch. 25.24) 50

 Pioneer Square Minimum Maintenance Ordinance (Ch. 25.28, Subchapter II) 50

 Planned Unit Development (Ch. 24.66) 50

 Plumbing Code (Ch. 20.16, Uniform Plumbing Code, Ord. 116594) 50

 Property Tax Exemption, Cancellation of Exemption (Ch. 5.72) 50

 Radiofrequency Radiation Ordinance (Ch. 25.10) 50

 Refund Anticipation Loan (Ch 7.26) 5

 Relocation Assistance (Ch. 20.84) No fee

 Seizure of Property -- Controlled Substances (RCW 69.50.505(e No fee

 Special Review Districts (Ch. 23.66) 50

 State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) (when not a Master Use Permit component) (Ch. 25.04) 50

 Utility tax (Ch. 5.48) 50

 Zoning Map Amendments (Rezones) (Ch. 23.34) No fee

 Zoning Rulings and Interpretations (Ch. 23.88) 50

 Section 13. Effective July 1, 2007, Subsection 5.45.090 BB of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 BB. Taxes collected as trust funds. This chapter shall not apply to amounts collected by the taxpayer from third parties to satisfy third party obligations to pay taxes such as the retail sales tax, use tax, commercial parking tax, and admission tax.

 Section 14. Severability. If any part, provision or section of this ordinance is held to be void or unconstitutional, all other parts, provisions, and sections of this ordinance not expressly so held to be void or unconstitutional shall continue in full force and effect.

 Section 15. If the amendments to Seattle Municipal Code chapters 3.02, 5.30, and 5.55 submitted by Council Bill No. 115667 are also enacted into law, then both the amendments to Seattle Municipal Code chapters 3.02, 5.30, and 5.55 in Council Bill No. 115667 and the amendments to Seattle Municipal Code chapters 3.02, 5.30, and 5.55 in this ordinance shall be given effect.

 Section 16. The Director will develop and implement to the extent practical practices to reduce the taxpayers' administrative burden of keeping records for reporting and paying the parking tax.

 Section 17. This ordinance imposing the parking tax is subject to a referendum. Any referendum petition must be filed with the filing officer of the City under the special procedures established by RCW 82.80.090. The filing officer of the City is hereby designated to be the City Clerk, located on the third floor of City Hall, 600 Fourth Avenue, Seattle, Washington.

 Section 18. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2006. _____________________________________ President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2006. ___________________________________________ Greg Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2006. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 Aug 7, 2006 (Ver. 16) ta

```
