

********

**Council Bill Number: 115613**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122149**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with Festivals, Inc. for the presentation of annual Bite of Seattle festivals at Seattle Center.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 26, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 6, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 6, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 19, 2006
   
**Committee:** Parks, Education, Libraries and Labor
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, LEASES, EATING-AND-DRINKING-PLACES, EVENTS, FESTIVALS

**Fiscal Note:**115613

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with Festivals, Inc. for the presentation of annual Bite of Seattle festivals at Seattle Center.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director, or his or her designee, is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with Festivals, Inc. substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as 'AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND FESTIVALS, INC. REGARDING THE "BITE OF SEATTLE"' (Attachment 1) for purposes related to the presentation of annual Bite of Seattle festivals at Seattle Center from 2006 through 2008.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND FESTIVALS, INC. REGARDING THE "BITE OF SEATTLE"

 Version #1

 (Attachment 1)

 AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 AND

 FESTIVALS, INC REGARDING THE "BITE OF SEATTLE"

 Table of Contents

 Table of Contents 2

 1. TERM. 3

 2. PURPOSE. 3

 3. PREMISES. 3

 4. FEES AND CHARGES PAYABLE TO CITY. 4

 5. TIME AND PLACE OF PAYMENT- DELINQUENCY CHARGE. 8

 6. BOOKS AND RECORDS; FINANCIAL REPORTS. 9

 7. AUDIT. 10

 8. LIABILITY. 10

 9. CONCESSIONAIRE'S LAYOUT AND OPERATIONS. 15

 10. LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES. 19

 11. COVENANTS REGARDING CONCESSIONAIRE'S OPERATING CONDITIONS. 19

 12. ADVERTISING, PUBLICITY AND ENTERTAINMENT. 27

 13. MAINTENANCE, CLEANING, AND REPAIR. 28

 14. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW. 30

 15. CITY'S POWER TO CONTROL BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS AND ACTIVITIES. 30

 16. CITY'S RIGHT TO DISAPPROVE MERCHANDISE AND PRICES. 32

 17. CITY'S RIGHT TO PREMISES: INSPECTION, REPAIR, AND IMPROVEMENT OF PREMISES AND OTHER PROPERTY. 33

 18. ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER. 34

 19. SUBCONCESSIONAIRE AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED. 34

 20. DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION. 35

 21. DEFAULT AND BREACH; TERMINATION THEREFOR. 36

 22. SURRENDER OF PREMISES, HOLDING OVER. 38

 23. NOTICES AND OTHER DELIVERABLE MATERIALS. 39

 24. NO RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED. 39

 25. SEATTLE CENTER DIRECTOR'S AUTHORITY. 39

 26. AMENDMENTS. 40

 27. REDEVELOPMENT MODIFICATIONS. 40

 28. NO WAIVER. 40

 29. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE. 40

 30. USE OF LANGUAGE. 40

 31. CAPTIONS. 41

 32. INVALIDITY OF PARTICULAR PROVISIONS. 41

 33. BINDING EFFECT. 41

 34. PREVIOUS AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED. 41

 35. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT. 41

 36. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. 41

 37. DEFINITIONS. 41

 AGREEMENT BETWEEN

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 AND

 FESTIVALS, INC.

 REGARDING THE

 "BITE OF SEATTLE"

 THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE (hereinafter referred to as the "City"), a first class city of the State of Washington, acting by and through its Seattle Center Director ("Director"), and FESTIVALS, INC. ("Concessionaire"), a Washington corporation.

 IN CONSIDERATION of the mutual promises, covenants, conditions and performances hereinafter described, the parties hereto agree as follows:

 1. TERM.

 This Agreement shall commence on January 1, 2006, and shall expire on December 31, 2008 (the "Term"), unless terminated earlier as provided herein. Each of the calendar years included in the Term is referred to in this Agreement as a "Festival Year."

 2. PURPOSE.

 Concessionaire shall organize and stage an annual "Bite of Seattle Festival" ("Festival") that shall be presented over not less than two and one-half (2 1/2) consecutive days; shall be primarily a food sales event; and which shall be open to the general public without admission charge.

 For each year during the Term, the Festival shall take place on the following dates:

 July 21-23, 2006

 July 20-22, 2007

 July 18-20, 2008

 3. PREMISES.

 A. Premises Available to be Licensed:

 The Festival shall take place only on and in those portions of the Seattle Center grounds and facilities indicated in the Approved site plan described in Section 9. The areas identified on each annual Approved site plan shall constitute that Festival Year's premises ("Premises").

 Buildings or portions thereof available to be licensed include: Seattle Center Pavilion Rooms A and B; Fisher Pavilion; Conference Rooms A, B, and H; Snoqualmie Room (except in 2006); and Alki Room.

 B. Acceptance of Premises:

 Concessionaire warrants and represents that it has investigated the grounds and facilities that may comprise the Premises from year to year, that the same are suitable for Concessionaire's intended purpose and that it accepts the Premises "as is." The City disclaims any and all representations, statements, and warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to the condition of the Premises or the use and occupancy authorized other than those contained in this Agreement.

 C. Nonexclusive License to Use Common Areas:

 The City hereby grants to Concessionaire and its officers, employees, agents, customers, and invitees the nonexclusive right to use the Seattle Center common areas as the same may be constituted from time to time, for the duration of each Festival. Such use shall be in common with all other visitors and users of the Seattle Center and shall be subject to such current rules and regulations as the Director may have promulgated.

 D. South KeyArena Courtyard Area:

 On each Festival day, Concessionaire may use the South KeyArena Courtyard on a twenty-four (24) hour-per-day basis for parking purposes only, unless the Courtyard is required by a third party for an event in the KeyArena. When using the Courtyard, Concessionaire shall ensure that all fire lanes remain open for emergency access and that parking is made available at no charge for vehicles driven by officers or employees of the Washington State Liquor Control Board, the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health, and the Seattle Fire Department on official business. If the South KeyArena Courtyard is unavailable, the City shall provide Concessionaire, each Festival day, with up to sixty (60) parking spaces in the 1st Avenue North Garage or other Seattle Center parking facility at no charge.

 4. FEES AND CHARGES PAYABLE TO CITY.

 A. Concessionaire's Obligation to Pay Fees and Charges:

 Concessionaire shall pay to the City, without offset, all fees and charges described in this Agreement for each Festival presented during the Term. Charges and services not specifically enumerated but requested by Concessionaire shall be payable at the rates shown in the then-current Seattle Center Equipment, Services & Facilities Schedule or any successor publication.

 B. Fee for Food, Wine and Merchandise Sales:

 Concessionaire shall pay the City ten percent (10%) of all Gross Receipts derived from the sale of food, wine, and merchandise, except for receipts from craft and commercial vendors. Concessionaire shall pay the City $100 per booth for each craft vendor and $120 per booth for each commercial vendor or $5,700, whichever is greater. If there is a substantial alteration in the amount of space available for craft and commercial vendor booths as a result of Seattle Center construction or changes in applicable regulations, the above amounts may be renegotiated.

 C. Fee for Beer and Spirits Sales; Sales only in Designated Areas:

 Concessionaire shall pay the City twenty percent (20%) of Gross Receipts derived from the sale of beer or spirits in the designated beer garden(s) and comedy or dance hall(s) described in each year's Approved site plan. Any sale or advertising of spirits (alcohol) must be approved in advance by the Director.

 D. Landscape Maintenance Fee:

 Concessionaire shall pay an annual fee for basic Festival-related landscape maintenance. For 2006, said fee shall be Thirty-five Thousand Nine Hundred and Eighty-Seven Dollars ($35,987) adjusted by the 2005 CPI-U, and it shall be due and payable as provided in section 5.A.1.

 For each subsequent year of this Agreement the Landscape Maintenance Fee shall be adjusted by the percentage increase that occurred during the preceding calendar year in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers ("CPI-U" / 1982-84 = 100) Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton Metropolitan Area as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor, or its successor. If the CPI is discontinued, the Director shall select a similar index of comparable statistics on the cost of living for King County as shall be computed by an agency of the United States or by a responsible financial periodical or other recognized authority. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no case shall the annual Landscape Maintenance Fee be increased by more than three percent (3%) from the immediately preceding Festival Year, or be less than the fee paid during the immediately preceding Festival Year.

 E. Parking:

 Concessionaire may purchase daily permits for vehicle parking in one or more Seattle Center parking lots, to be mutually agreed upon no later than February 28, 2006, at the then-applicable Seattle Center rate for "client twenty-four (24) hour all-hours" parking. The permits shall be valid only on days that the Festival is open for food and beverage service to the public, and only for vehicles that are no more than nineteen (19) feet long. Use of Seattle Center parking lot(s) shall be on a first come, first served basis.

 F. Event Service Order Charges:

 Concessionaire shall be billed at and shall pay current Seattle Center rates for the following:

 (1) Dumpster Rental & Disposal Fee:

 Rent for dumpsters specifically ordered for Festivals and disposal charges for compacted waste generated by Festivals.

 (2) Natural Gas Distribution:

 All charges for the above-ground distribution of natural gas and for all natural gas consumption during Festivals, including charges resulting from operation or location changes to Festivals unless the Seattle Center requires such changes.

 (3) Electricity Charges:

 All fees and charges for electricity use and service provided for Festivals including, but not limited to, special utility equipment such as transformers and converters; the installation, change, and relocation of points and means of service; and a prorated share of electricity use from service connections that are not separately metered but are shared with other Seattle Center users. The City shall determine Concessionaire's prorated share of such utility service and shall bill Concessionaire for such service. Concessionaire shall make arrangements directly with Seattle City Light to secure whatever additional electrical service is needed on the Premises beyond that presently installed at Seattle Center. All electricity use and service shall be separately metered where reasonably possible. The City shall make every reasonable effort to ensure that the electrical power capacity available for Festival use is equal to that available at the 2005 festival, however, if equal electrical power capacity cannot be provided because of any Seattle Center campus redevelopment work, the City and Concessionaire shall equally share the cost of securing whatever power capacity is required to make up the deficiency. If Concessionaire uses electrical power from the Charlotte Martin Theatre, Concessionaire shall reimburse the Theatre for all associated costs within thirty (30) days after the date of the Seattle Children's Theatre's invoice therefor.

 (4) Sound and Stage Labor:

 All personnel charges for sound and stage staff whenever the Director determines that such staff is required.

 Scaffolding and truck stage companies shall provide no more than two, experienced, company-employed, working supervisors, to work with and direct City stagehands in the placement and construction of truck stages. Scaffolding companies shall provide working supervisors, in an equal amount to the number of City stagehands, that are skilled and experienced in scaffolding erection for beer gardens, sound wings and other structures for which the contractor supplies the equipment.. Non-skilled workers will not be allowed to work on the erection of any stages or platforms on the Seattle Center Grounds. .

 (5) Grounds Cleaning:

 A disposal fee, established by the Director, to recover the City's expenses (labor, equipment and supplies) in removing grease, ashes and debris left by food or beverage vendors or merchandise retailers in areas of the Seattle Center other than those designated for such purpose. The condition of the Premises shall be verified by photographs and/or video taken prior to the move-in of each year's Festival and the Tuesday morning immediately following each year's Festival. Designees of the Director and Concessionaire shall jointly inspect the Premises on the Tuesday morning following each year's Festival.

 (6) Seattle Center Admissions & Security Personnel & City- Contracted Peer Group Security Personnel:

 (a) Concessionaire shall pay for the following personnel whom Seattle Center schedules to perform Festival-related work at any time prior to, during, or following a Festival:

 (i) Admissions personnel; and

 (ii) Seattle Center Security personnel.

 (b) Concessionaire shall pay the actual cost for City- contracted and non-City contracted peer group security. All overnight peer group security positions must be staffed by Seattle Center's current exclusive provider.

 (7) Mercer Street Garage Overpass Charges:

 If the Mercer Street overpass is available for advertising purposes and the Director Approves Concessionaire's proposed use, then the following will apply:

 Concessionaire shall pay the labor cost incurred by the City in mounting on and removing from the Mercer Street Garage overpass a "Bite of Seattle" banner. Such banner shall be mounted as early as reasonably possible during the two weeks before each Festival and removed and returned to Concessionaire as soon as reasonably possible after the Festival.

 5. TIME AND PLACE OF PAYMENT- DELINQUENCY CHARGE.

 A. Time and Place of Payments:

 (1) The Landscape Maintenance Fee referenced in Subsection 4.D, is due and payable on the Monday immediately preceding the Friday opening of each year's Festival, with or without invoice.

 (2) Fees and charges specified in Subsections 4.B and 4.C are due and payable on the September 15th immediately following each Festival, with or without invoice.

 (3) Fees and charges included in any year's Seattle Center Festival Event Service Order (including but not limited to the charges imposed pursuant to Subsections 4.E and 4.F) and all other fees and charges not otherwise specified herein are due and payable no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the City invoice therefor.

 B. Delinquencies:

 Payments not received on or by the date due shall be considered delinquent. If there is any delinquency, a service charge of the greater of 18% per annum or such other amount as may be established by City ordinance, shall be added to the outstanding balance from the date when payment was originally due to the date paid. Concessionaire's obligation to pay the fees and charges specified herein shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

 C. Disputed Fees:

 If Concessionaire disputes any City invoice or other charge imposed pursuant to the Agreement, Concessionaire shall remit the full amount of the invoice or charge on or by the date it is due and payable, and concurrently submit to the Director a notice explaining the basis for Concessionaire's dispute. Upon receipt of any disputed payment and Concessionaire's explanation notice, the Director shall schedule a meeting with Concessionaire within the following thirty (30) calendar days to provide an opportunity for the parties to resolve their dispute. If the dispute is not resolved through such meeting, Concessionaire may then commence legal proceedings to resolve the same. Concessionaire's failure to remit the disputed amount(s) as provided herein shall constitute a waiver of Concessionaire's dispute with respect to such invoice or other charge and the amount shall then be considered delinquent, and Concessionaire shall be deemed to be in material breach of this Agreement.

 D. Address for Payments to City:

 All payments shall be made payable and shall be delivered to The City of Seattle c/o Seattle Center Fiscal Services & Accounting, 305 Harrison Street, Seattle, WA 98109, or to such other address as the Director shall specify.

 6. BOOKS AND RECORDS; FINANCIAL REPORTS.

 A. Books and Records:

 Concessionaire shall maintain, and ensure that each of its subconcessionaires maintains, true, separate, complete and auditable records, and an accounting system having controls governing inventories and receipts, and detailed records of all income and expenses of all business conducted in, on or from the Premises, which records and accounting system shall be subject to the City's Approval. Neither Concessionaire nor any of its subconcessionaires shall destroy any dated daily cash register tapes generated as a result of commercial activity undertaken pursuant to this Agreement at any time during the term of this Agreement or during the three years following the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, except with the City's Approval.

 B. Financial Reports:

 On or by the 15th day of September for each year of this Agreement, Concessionaire shall submit to the Seattle Center Fiscal Services & Accounting at the address specified in Section 5 hereof, a detailed report of the Gross Receipts generated during that year's Festival, on a form provided by the City, together with such other information regarding that year's Festival as the City may request.

 C. Survival of Record-keeping & Reporting Obligations:

 Concessionaire's record-keeping and reporting obligations shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

 7. AUDIT.

 A. Audit:

 Concessionaire shall keep true, separate, complete and auditable records and maintain an accounting system having controls governing (1) inventories and receipts, and (2) detailed records of all income from all business conducted on or from the Premises.

 Concessionaire shall permit the City, from time to time, as the Director or the City Auditor deems necessary, to inspect and audit in King County, Washington, at any and all reasonable times, all of Concessionaire's pertinent books and records pertaining to the activity undertaken on or from the Premises pursuant to this Agreement, and shall supply the City with, or shall permit the City to make, a copy of any such books and records and any portion thereof, upon the Director's or City Auditor's request. The Director shall notify Concessionaire of the amount of any over- or underpayment found. Any overpayment shall be a credit against any fees and charges subsequently due or shall be refunded to Concessionaire; any underpayment shall be immediately due and payable and shall be delinquent if not paid within ten (10) days after the date of such notice. Concessionaire shall ensure that such inspection, audit and copying right of the City is a condition of any subcontract, concession or catering agreement or other arrangement under which any other person or entity is permitted to use or occupy the Premises or engage in catering and concession activity on or from the Premises.

 8. LIABILITY.

 A. Indemnity:

 Concessionaire shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages, and expenses arising out of or resulting from the acts or omissions of Concessionaire or its subconcessionaires, agents or employees under this Agreement. If any loss, claim, action, damage, or expense is asserted or brought against the City, Concessionaire, upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the City against the same at its sole cost and expense and if final judgment be adverse to the City, or the City and Concessionaire jointly, Concessionaire shall promptly satisfy the same. The liability described in this subsection shall not be diminished by the fact, if it be a fact, that any such death, injury, damage, loss, cost or expense may have been contributed to, or may be alleged to have been contributed to, in part, by the negligence of the City, its officers, employees, or agents; provided, that nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed as requiring Concessionaire to indemnify the City against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from sole negligence of the City, its employees, officers, or agents. The indemnification provided for in this subsection shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement. Concessionaire further waives with respect to the City and for purposes of this Agreement only, its immunity under RCW Title 51, the Industrial Insurance Act.

 B. Insurance:

 No less than thirty (30) days prior to the first day of set-up or move-in for any Festival-related event, Concessionaire shall obtain and file with the Director and the City's Risk Manager a full copy of all insurance policies, including required endorsements, as enumerated below.

 If Concessionaire fails to procure or maintain the required insurance, the City may, at its option, obtain the required insurance at Concessionaire's expense, including all broker commission charges as may be applicable.

 Concessionaire shall pay all costs for procuring.

 (1) Required Coverage

 (a) Commercial General Liability, written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form CG 0001-1001, including all the usual coverages known as:

 Premises/Operations Liability

 Products/Completed Operations

 Personal/Advertising Injury

 Contractual Liability

 Stop Gap/Employer's Contingent Liability

 The policy shall provide the following minimum coverage:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage

 $ 1,000,000 General Aggregate

 $ 1,000,000 Products & Completed Operations Aggregate

 $ 1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury

 $ 1,000,000 Each Occurrence

 $ 100,000 Fire Damage Legal

 Stop Gap/Employer's Liability

 $ 1,000,000 Each Accident

 (b) Commercial Automobile Liability for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles, written on an insurance industry standard form CA 00 01 or equivalent, and as specified by Insurance Services Office Symbol 1, designating any auto. The policy must provide a $1,000,000 minimum liability limit.

 (c) Excess Insurance providing coverage above the limits of the commercial general liability and auto liability policies for a total liability limit of $2,000,000. The excess policy must be at least as broad as the primary policies.

 (d) Worker's Compensation: Concessionaire shall comply with Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington pertaining to industrial insurance. The Concessionaire shall ensure that workers' compensation insurance is provided for any subcontractor or subconcessionaire who provides services under this Agreement.

 (e) Other Special Coverage: The following special coverage shall be required if Concessionaire undertakes the activities to which they apply and if not specifically covered, shall be provided by endorsement to the commercial general liability and excess liability policies, or insured separately, with limits of not less than $2,000,000 each occurrence:

 (i) If alcohol is to be served or sold at any location of the Festival, Concessionaire shall provide Liquor Liability Insurance.

 (ii) If Concessionaire uses pyrotechnics or engages in any activity covered by any section of the Seattle Fire Code, Concessionaire shall provide pyrotechnic or other appropriate insurance.

 (iii) If Concessionaire offers pony rides, petting zoos, or other animal related activities, Concessionaire shall provide liability insurance.

 (iv) If motorized and/or power supported tools and equipment are brought on site, including generators, hydraulic lifts, bucket lifts, forklifts, and other items, Concessionaire shall provide liability insurance.

 (v) If motorized and/or power supported participant activities are held, including the use of motorcycles, golf carts, or powered model cars, boats or planes, or non-standard personal car activities are held (e.g. show or racing), Concessionaire shall provide liability insurance.

 Motorized and/or power assisted carnival type rides, including bungee jumps, trampolines, orbital rides, and related rides and physical/body-active attractions commonly associated with a fair or carnival atmosphere, require liability coverage with limits of not less than $5,000,000 each occurrence.

 Valet parking activity requires commercial general liability, as set forth above, and "garage keepers legal liability" coverage, with limits not less than $500,000 per location for comprehensive, specified cause of loss and collision.

 Volunteers must be covered by commercial insurance with a minimum limit of $25,000 per person, accident medical/AD&D, and $100,000 personal liability. Volunteers driving in the course of their activity must have a current valid Washington driver's license, and be covered by commercial auto liability as outlined above.

 (2) Deductibles

 If the Concessionaire's insurance contains a deductible or self- insured retention, the Concessionaire shall disclose such amount and shall pay any claim equal to or less than the deductible or self- insured retention. The City Risk Manager reserves the right to reject insurance policies with a deductible or self-insured retention in excess of $25,000 if Concessionaire cannot satisfy the City Risk Manager as to Concessionaire's financial strength.

 (3) Conditions

 The City Risk Manager shall approve all insurance policies, endorsements, subcontractors' or subconcessionaires' insurance and subsequent renewals as to company, form and coverage. All insurance carriers shall be rated A-:VII or higher in the current A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington, or be legally filed and stamped as a surplus line by a Washington broker.

 All policies shall:

 (a) be primary as respects the City, and any other insurance maintained by the City shall be excess and not contributing insurance;

 (b) be maintained in full force and effect throughout the Festival dates and any permitted ancillary activities;

 (c) protect the City, within the policy limits, from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages, and expenses arising out or resulting from the Concessionaire's performance or lack of performance under this Agreement;

 (d) name The City of Seattle as an additional insured, as evidenced by a CG2026 Additional Insured Endorsement, or equivalent, signed, dated, and bearing the policy number;

 (e) include a provision, whether by endorsement or otherwise, indicating that, except with respect to the limits of insurance and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, the insurance shall apply as if each party insured thereunder, whether as a named insured, additional named insured, or additional insured, were the only party insured by such policy, and separately to each insured against whom a claim is made or a suit is brought;

 (f) include all subcontractors and subconcessionaires as insureds or, alternatively, the Concessionaire may obtain from each subcontractor and subconcessionaire evidence of insurance meeting all the requirements of this section that pertain to the subcontractors or subconcessionaire's activities and provide copies of these documents to the City's Risk Manager; and

 (g) be maintained and available for City inspection for a period of three years after each Festival.

 9. CONCESSIONAIRE'S LAYOUT AND OPERATIONS.

 A. Submission of Planning Documents:

 (1) Not later than February 28th of each Festival Year, Concessionaire shall provide the Director with a detailed preliminary site plan identifying Concessionaire's proposed booth layout (including "portable" booth and on-grounds vendor and vehicle locations), special sponsorship exhibits, beer garden(s), required Seattle Center buildings or service facilities, vendor washing facilities, special venues and stages. The Director shall review such site plan and provide comments, if any, within twenty (20) days after receipt. Concessionaire shall submit for Approval a further revised site plan incorporating the Director's comments and revisions within ten (10) days from the date of the Director's notice. Not later than May 31st of each Festival Year, Concessionaire shall provide the Director with a final proposed site plan, that includes the above information as well as the proposed locations for refrigerated trucks, storage trucks and containers, ice supply trucks, all on-grounds vehicles and vendors; every inflated structure or object requiring any form of tether or connection to the ground or any fixed structure or landscaping element; dumpsters; and service areas for Festival plumbers, electricians and/or decorators. The Director shall review such site plan and provide comments, if any, within twenty (20) days after receipt. Concessionaire shall submit for Approval a further revised site plan incorporating the Director's comments and revisions within ten (10) days from the date of the Director's notice. If Concessionaire disapproves anything the Director requires in a site plan, Concessionaire may request a meeting with the Director to resolve the issue. All site plans shall conform to the requirements of the then-current Seattle Center Technical Services User Guidelines or any successor publication.

 Concessionaire shall make no changes to the final Approved site plan unless approved by the Director. In particular, Concessionaire shall not increase the number or size of any booths. However, if Concessionaire determines after May 31st of any Festival Year that it will not utilize any facility reserved for it on the Premises pursuant to the Approved final site plan, Concessionaire shall pay a cancellation fee equal to the applicable current daily license fee to for-profit users of such facility, as published in the then-current Equipment, Services, & Facilities Schedule or its successor publication.

 (2) Security Plan:

 By June 1st of each Festival Year, Concessionaire shall submit for Approval a security plan, detailing how Concessionaire intends to provide protection for its personal property and Seattle Center property during the Festival, including during move-in and move-out periods and after-hours.

 (3) Mercer Garage Overpass Signage:

 By May 15th of each Festival Year, Concessionaire shall submit for Approval the proposed design and size of any banner Concessionaire wishes to have displayed on the Mercer Street Garage overpass for the Festival.

 The design and size of said banner shall be deemed to have been approved by the Director unless the Director notifies Concessionaire otherwise within fourteen (14) days after receiving the proposal.

 (4) Seattle Center Stage Labor Plan:

 No later than July 1st of each Festival Year, Concessionaire shall provide Seattle Center with a stage labor plan so that the appropriate and necessary staffing arrangements can be made to accommodate the load-in, Festival performances, and load-out.

 B. No Representation or Liability Created by Approval:

 The Director's Approval of any plans required pursuant to this Agreement shall not constitute an opinion or representation by the City as to their compliance with any law or ordinance or their adequacy for other than the Seattle Center's own purposes. Such Approval shall not create or form the basis of any liability on the part of the City or any of its officers, employees, or agents for any injury or damage resulting from any inadequacy or error therein or any failure to comply with applicable laws or ordinances.

 C. Work Inconsistent with Approved Plans:

 No improvement, alteration, or addition shall be constructed, placed, or erected on the Premises except in accordance with Approved plans and specifications therefor. Immediately following its receipt of notice from the Director that an improper improvement, addition, or alteration has been erected in, on, or is being made to the Premises, Concessionaire shall either desist from the occupation, use, and operation of such improvement, addition, or alteration and remove it from the Premises or make it consistent with such Approved plans and specifications within such time period and as otherwise ordered by the Director, whose decision shall be final. If Concessionaire fails to comply with any such order, the City may remove such unauthorized alteration or addition and charge Concessionaire for such removal expense.

 Concessionaire waives any and all claims it may have or assert for damages, lost profits and other injuries arising out of or in any way connected with Concessionaire's making an unauthorized improvement, alteration or addition on or to the Premises and any resultant City action taken in response thereto.

 D. Pre-Festival Meetings At Seattle Center:

 Concessionaire and the Event Service Representative assigned to the Festival shall schedule a meeting with the Seattle Center Contracts and Concessions Manager, the Seattle Center Director in charge of the Festival, the Seattle Police and Fire Department liaisons to Seattle Center, and any other City or resident organization representatives whom the City or Concessionaire deems necessary, which meeting shall occur on or before July 1st of each Festival Year. At such meeting, public safety and security staffing, emergency contacts and emergency communication procedures and protocols will be established for the Festival.

 Concessionaire may use Conference Rooms A or H, if they are available, for one all-participant meeting during the month of June, at no additional cost.

 E. Sequencing of Move-in Activities:

 (1) Move-in:

 Concessionaire's move-in activities shall be sequenced in substantially the following order during the week immediately preceding the Friday opening of each Festival; provided, that if the Director determines, in such official's sole discretion, that such activity interferes or is likely to interfere with the use and enjoyment of any Seattle Center facility or area leased or licensed for use by a person or entity other than Concessionaire during such week, or with the Seattle Center's ability to provide appropriate service to any such person or entity, Concessionaire shall reschedule such activity to another time specified by the Director:

 Sunday 8:00 a.m. If the room is available the Concessionaire may move into Conference Room H.

 Monday: 6:00 a.m. The Premises, parking lots and other common areas of the Seattle Center grounds listed below, become available for move-in activities for the Concessionaire, subconcessionaires and any other subcontract staff, except that the Director may permit such move-in activities at an earlier time.

 Lot 6, SC Pavilions A & B, Fisher Pavilion Rooftop, Mural Roadway, Covered Walkway, West Fountain Lawn, South Founders Court, Alki Room, Ex-Hall Lawn, Snoqualmie Room (2007-2008), Alki Courtyard, and the South Fountain Pavers.

 Tuesday: 6:00 a.m. The Fountain Lawn, Mural Amphitheater, Fisher Lawn, Mural Lawn, NW Fountain Lawn Decking, and SC Pavilion Courtyard become available for move-in activities for the Concessionaire, subconcessionaires and any other subcontract staff.

 Wednesday and Thursday: All vendors move in.

 Depending on the availability of grounds and/or facilities, as determined by the Director, Concessionaire may book Festival-related events on the grounds or in facilities prior to the opening days of the Festivals, consistent with the requirements and deadlines specified herein as further outlined in this Section 9. Such event(s) shall occur no earlier than the Monday immediately preceding the Friday opening of such Festival.

 (2) Move-out:

 Move-out from the grounds and facilities shall be finished by 7:00 p.m. on the first Tuesday following the Festival, except that move-out from the Fisher Pavilion facility, rooftop and apron shall be finished by 5:00 p.m. on the first Monday following the Festival, if the Director so requests. The Director shall provide the Concessionaire with written notification of such request to move out from the Fisher Pavilion facility, rooftop and apron by 5:00 p.m. on the first Monday following the Festival, no later than twenty days after submittal of the original proposed site plan.

 F. City Not Responsible for Concessionaire's Work:

 All improvements, additions, and alterations made to the Premises to convert the same to the condition desired by Concessionaire for the operation of its Festival shall be at Concessionaire's sole risk and expense, unless otherwise specifically agreed upon in writing.

 G. Extra Charges:

 If the Director Approves an improvement, addition, or alteration requested by Concessionaire that requires any change in any facility, utility or service provided by the City, Concessionaire shall pay, as an additional charge, any costs incurred by the City in connection therewith provided that the City notifies Concessionaire of the estimated amount of such charge at the time the improvement, addition or alteration is Approved.

 H. Improvements, Additions, and Alterations must be Removed:

 All improvements, additions, and alterations made to the Premises by or on behalf of Concessionaire or any of its subconcessionaires must be removed by 11:59 p.m. on the day following the close of each Festival, unless the Director agrees otherwise. Failure to remove such improvements, additions and alterations may, in the Director's sole discretion, result in an additional charge for costs incurred by the City to accomplish such removal.

 I. Giveaways and Samples:

 The Director shall Approve all sales, giveaways and samples, of food, beverages and other products or merchandise. Any such Approval shall be subject to such conditions as the Director deems appropriate.

 10. LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES.

 Concessionaire shall keep the Premises free and clear of any liens and encumbrances arising out of its use and occupancy thereof. At the Director's request, Concessionaire shall deliver to the Seattle Center Contracts and Concessions Manager written proof of the payment of any item that could be the basis of such a lien, if not paid.

 11. COVENANTS REGARDING CONCESSIONAIRE'S OPERATING CONDITIONS.

 A. Business Hours:

 (1) Concessionaire shall not leave the Premises unoccupied or unsecured. It shall open and maintain its operation ready for the transaction of business with the public at the following times: 11:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday, and 11:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Sunday.

 (2) Concessionaire shall at all times during the Festival, including move-in and move-out days, maintain that level of security agreed to in the Approved security plan described in Subsection 9.A.3.

 B. Maximization of Gross Receipts:

 Concessionaire and its subconcessionaires shall carry on their business with diligence and efficiency and keep in stock lines of merchandise, food products and beverages of such size, quality and character as will maximize the generation of Gross Receipts.

 C. Personnel:

 Concessionaire and its subconcessionaires shall employ courteous, competent, and efficient help in such numbers, skills, and experience as is necessary to properly and efficiently conduct their activities on the Premises. At all times the Festival is open for business, Concessionaire shall have on the Premises a qualified representative authorized to represent Concessionaire in dealings with the City, and Concessionaire shall keep the Director informed of the identity of such person and any limits on such person's authority.

 Concessionaire, subconcessionaires and sub-contractors shall ensure that their staffs have and produce upon request, all the required certifications and/or licenses necessary to legally and safely operate equipment, including but not limited to forklifts, on the Premises.

 D. Business Name:

 Concessionaire shall not change the name by which it carries on its business without the Director's Approval.

 E. Electricity:

 The City shall not be liable for the interruption of any utility service unless due to the sole negligence of Seattle Center personnel.

 F. Seattle Center Equipment:

 The City shall provide stage and sound equipment as its Seattle Center Department inventory permits and to the extent specified in Concessionaire's Approved Event Service Order, at no charge. Concessionaire shall obtain any additional necessary sound and stage equipment at its sole expense while adhering to established guidelines in utilization of Seattle Center stage labor for assembly and disassembly of stage equipment.

 The City shall also provide at no charge TFM equipment as listed and available on the current inventory list. This includes, but is not limited to, food decking, food sinks, tree boxes as well as tables and chairs.

 G. Grounds Cleaning:

 The City shall provide grounds clean-up service in all areas outside of the vendor and service booths at the Festival. Concessionaire shall ensure that all grease, ashes and debris generated as a consequence of activity of Concessionaire or any of its subconcessionaires, are deposited in appropriate disposal locations prior to, during and after each Festival.

 H. Readerboards:

 The City shall provide Concessionaire with readerboard space, as available, for the two (2) weeks prior to and during each Festival, at no charge. The Director, solely, shall determine the number of such readerboards and their locations.

 I. Grounds and Landscaped Areas:

 Using lime line, cording, fencing, or other means, Concessionaire shall delineate at the rear of each booth or tent location designated on any Approved site plan, an area no larger than six feet multiplied by "X" (where "X" equals the width of such booth or tent area) to mark the area to which the occupants of such booth or tent are restricted when engaged in food or beverage preparing, cooling, cooking, or selling, supply storing, or any other Festival-related activity (other than the receiving of deliveries). Concessionaire shall ensure that each of its subconcessionaires and every officer, employee, and agent thereof and volunteer therefor engages in such activity only within such area. Concessionaire shall further ensure that all booths and other sales and demonstration facilities erected or installed on the Premises, and other areas of the Premises being used by Concessionaire or any of its subconcessionaires for any Festival purpose, include a means of protecting the grass, irrigation lines and other surfaces of the Premises from wear or damage to the extent practicable. Such booths, sponsorship or display vehicles, sales and demonstration facilities, or other subconcessionaires use areas on lawn or landscaped areas must be constructed as follows:

 (1) On Soft Surfaces (Grass, Dirt, and Mulched Areas):

 The show decorator can continue to use the same flooring it has used since 1986, plywood mounted on 2" X 4"'s. For vendors building their own flooring or for any new flooring built by the show decorator, the entire area being used must have flooring covered by 5/8" CDX plywood built on 2" x 4"s on their edge. If end pieces are connected to such 2" x 4"s, a 1" diameter hole shall be drilled through the 4" side of such end pieces approximately every 8" to allow air to circulate under the raised flooring.

 Should any kind of vehicle, truck, trailer, forklift, or motorized cart, need to be driven across or positioned upon a soft surface (grass, dirt, or mulched area) plywood shall be placed underneath the vehicle's tires as it travels and also be positioned under the tires in it's final location. Pieces of plywood that remain under the individual tires of such vehicles shall be no larger than 12"x24." Surface protection from oils or other liquids produced by the vehicle shall also be provided. 2' of grounds covering must be provided at all sanican locations for which the access points are from a grass area.

 The use of stakes is restricted to a depth of 12 inches in all areas. If stakes are used they must be painted or labeled in a way that clearly indicates the 12-inch maximum depth.

 (2) On Hard Surfaces Where Cooking Is Undertaken:

 The entire area being used, whether for booth, food preparing and cooking, or other purposes) must be thoroughly protected against food, beverage, ash and grease spills by having flooring in layers as follows:

 (a) Lower layer of 4' x 8' CDX 1/2" or thicker plywood installed directly under each cooking unit (barbecues, deep fryers, grills, griddles, spit, woks, etc.) as well as not less than 4' around each cooking unit.

 (b) Upper layer of rubber backed carpet or Astroturf securely joined together in a manner that covers the entire booth, i.e., cooking and all other areas.

 (3) On Hard Surfaces Where No Cooking Is Undertaken:

 Concessionaire shall install rubber-backed carpet or Astroturf, securely joined together in a manner that covers the entire area whenever and wherever food sampling is being done. Seattle Center reserves the right to require the Concessionaire to use rubber backed carpet, Astroturf, or other protective coverings in other areas that it deems necessary.

 (4) Planted areas behind/near vendor booths:

 Concessionaire must provide fencing or some other mutually agreed-upon type of protective barrier behind all vendor booths near planters and/or trees, as deemed necessary by the Director.

 J. Parking:

 On an annual basis for each year of this Agreement, the City shall provide Concessionaire with two (2) parking permits for the Seattle Center Mercer Street Garage or the Fifth Avenue North Parking Lot, to be used solely for Festival organizers visiting Seattle Center on Festival business.

 K. Fixtures, Furnishings, and Trade Equipment:

 All fixtures, furnishings, and trade equipment installed on the Premises shall be of high quality, of a modern type, and either new or completely reconditioned. Temporary or portable concession facilities shall be of the same quality as those commonly found in permanently installed concessions.

 L. Deliveries:

 All deliveries shall be made to a mutually pre-determined delivery location or entrance specified on the Approved site plan only during such periods as the Director designates. All deliveries must be completed before 11:00 a.m. on Festival days unless otherwise authorized by the Director.

 M. No Nuisances or Objectionable Activity:

 Neither Concessionaire nor any of its subconcessionaires shall permit any excessive or objectionable noise, odor, dust, vibration or similar substance or condition to remain on or be emitted from the Premises; interfere with access from the Seattle Center or any part thereof, including the Premises, or with the traffic thereon; create any nuisance in or adjacent to the Seattle Center; or do anything at the Seattle Center that will create a danger to life or limb. As between the City and Concessionaire, Concessionaire shall be solely responsible for ensuring that all Festival activities comply with applicable safety and health laws and regulations.

 N. Food and Beverage Standards:

 All food and beverages offered for sale on or from the Premises shall be of the best quality, wholesome, and pure. All canned edible food products used on the Premises shall be approved by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and of the quality commonly known as "fancy." Baked goods, dairy and other food products shall not be served or used after their pull dates. No meat products containing texturized vegetable protein or other meal, grain or filler products shall be used on the Premises.

 O. No Misbranding or Misrepresentation:

 Neither Concessionaire nor any of its subconcessionaires shall offer for sale or rent on or from the Premises any food, beverage or other merchandise or service that is misbranded, or misrepresent the size, quality, capabilities, or other characteristics of any food, beverage, merchandise or service offered for sale or rent.

 P. Limitations on Use of Common Areas:

 Neither Concessionaire nor any of its subconcessionaires shall use the Seattle Center common areas to meet governmental requirements peculiar to Concessionaire's operations hereunder, and whenever facilities are required to satisfy such governmental requirements, the facilities shall be located within the Premises at Concessionaire's sole expense unless the Director determines otherwise.

 Q. Environmentally Sensitive Food Service Material Required:

 Concessionaire shall not use or permit the use of any food or beverage container that on or after the date this Agreement is executed, is prohibited by the Director for use or service at the Seattle Center.

 R. Lost Children on Premises:

 Concessionaire shall identify on each proposed site plan the location of a "Lost Child" area for the full three days of the Festival. The "Lost Child" area shall be staffed with competent childcare providers from the opening of each Festival day through one hour after the close of each Festival day. Such childcare providers shall have reasonable access to, and training in. the use of adequate life-safety communications equipment at that specific site.

 S. Medic Station on Premises:

 Throughout the Festival, Concessionaire shall install and operate on the Premises a first aid center equipped with sufficient certified medical personnel and adequate supplies for first-aid treatment to Festival patrons, staff, and volunteers. The minimum hours of operation shall be one (1) hour prior to the opening of each Festival Day through one (1) hour after closing. Concessionaire shall pay all costs for such medical personnel and supplies. Concessionaire shall ensure that a written report is prepared immediately after any treatment is provided from such first aid center, identifying the individual treated, by name, and describing the nature of the incident that made such treatment necessary. Concessionaire shall deliver a copy of each such report to the Director at the end of each day of the Festival.

 T. Festival Dumpsters, Refuse, Food Waste Recycling, and Garbage Containers:

 The Director shall determine the number, size, and location of dumpsters for the Festival after consultation with Concessionaire regarding its needs and considering the City's ability to service said dumpsters.

 Concessionaire shall provide refuse and garbage containers in such number and style as may be Approved by the Director and shall provide special containers, and/or compactor and disposal system(s) whenever the Director determines such equipment to be necessary.

 U. Ash and Grease Barrels:

 Concessionaire shall provide in sufficient quantities appropriate ash and grease barrels to all authorized subconcessionaires engaged in spit-barbecuing, deep-frying and other similar cooking methods requiring such equipment. Concessionaire shall pay all costs to remove and dispose of ash and grease barrels and their contents. Concessionaire shall ensure that no subconcessionaires disposes of any ash or grease in City-owned dumpster(s) or waste receptacles.

 Concessionaire and subconcessionaires shall use easily recognizable signage to distinguish all ask and grease barrels.

 V. Security Services to be Provided by On- and Off-Duty Seattle Police Personnel:

 (1) Concessionaire's Obligations:

 Concessionaire shall reimburse the City for the services of such on-duty Seattle Police Department personnel as the Police Department deems necessary to provide security for the Festival.

 Concessionaire shall secure and pay for the services of such off- duty Seattle Police Department personnel as are necessary to implement the security plan described in Subsection 9.A.3.

 (2) Compensation Payable:

 The compensation payable by the Concessionaire for the security services provided by on-duty Seattle Police Department personnel shall be equal to the top single fee established by the Special Events Committee for special events. The top single fee in 2005 was $26,530 for a no-entry fee event with an anticipated attendance of 50,000 or more. Concessionaire shall remit full payment for services provided by on-duty Seattle Police Department personnel by check payable to the City of Seattle and delivered to the City, c/o Seattle Center Fiscal Control & Accounting, 305 Harrison Street, Seattle, WA 98109, or to such other address as the Director shall specify.

 The compensation payable by Concessionaire for the security services provided by off-duty Seattle Police Department personnel shall be equal to the actual number of officers, sergeants, administrative sergeants, and lieutenants engaged in such security work at the Festival pursuant to this Agreement multiplied by their respective, then-current, hourly compensation rates, as established by the City, multiplied by the actual (not estimated) number of hours each was engaged in such work. Full payment for the services of all off-duty police personnel is to be made by Concessionaire in the form of a check made payable to the Seattle Police Trust Account, delivered to the Commander of the Seattle Police Department's Special Activities Section, no later than 5:00 p.m. on the Wednesday immediately following the close of each year's Festival.

 W. Vehicle Access:

 Only vehicles authorized by the Concessionaire and displaying an approved Seattle Center parking pass shall access the Seattle Center grounds. All unauthorized vehicles will be cited and may be removed from the site.

 X. Post Festival Bus Shuttles

 If the Director determines, after consultation with SPD and the Concessionaire, that for the increased safety and security of festival patrons it is desirable to provide free public bus shuttles post Festival, then the Concessionaire shall be responsible for 50% of the costs of providing METRO buses and staff, up to $2,500.

 Y. Seattle Children's Theater Drop-off Area

 Beginning with move-in on Monday the Concessionaire will establish a parent/kid pick up and drop off area on Second Avenue south of the SCT loading dock similar in size and location to the area created for the 2005 festival.

 12. ADVERTISING, PUBLICITY AND ENTERTAINMENT.

 A. Submission and Approval of Annual Advertising and Promotion Plan:

 Ninety (90) days prior to each Festival Concessionaire shall submit to Seattle Center for Approval, an Advertising and Promotion Plan for that Festival Year. Any changes or additions to such plan shall be Approved by the Seattle Center Director of Marketing and Business Development prior to implementation.

 Concessionaire shall conduct its promotions, marketing, advertising, publicity and public relations regarding the Festival in a manner that both distinguishes the "Bite of Seattle" as a separate and unrelated festival from the annual "Northwest Folklife Festival" and "Bumbershoot Festival" and is consistent with the Seattle Center Vision Statement and Goals; furthermore, Concessionaire and Seattle Center personnel designated by the Director shall cooperatively plan such promotions, marketing, advertising, publicity and public relations.

 B. Prohibited Promotion and Other Material; Removal of Same:

 Neither Concessionaire nor any of its subconcessionaires shall display, post, or distribute any sign, symbol, advertising of any nature, or any printed material on any part of the Seattle Center without prior written permission therefor from the Director, nor shall Concessionaire permit such activity to occur in or on location(s) other than those specifically Approved by the Director. Concessionaire shall remove all such signs, symbols, advertising and printed material from the Seattle Center within forty-eight (48) hours after the conclusion of each Festival, at no cost to the City, and shall correct any unsightly condition and repair any damage or injury to City property caused by such signs, symbols, advertising and printed material, and the removal thereof. The City may remove unauthorized display material from City property at any time.

 C. Use of Photos and Similar Material:

 Each party hereto may make photographs, videotapes, and motion pictures of the Premises and the activity, people, displays and exhibits thereon except that if Concessionaire intends to use such visual material for commercial advertising, filming, promotion, public relations or other similar purposes, Concessionaire shall obtain the prior written Approval of the Director for such use, which Approval may be conditioned upon, among other things, Concessionaire's payment of additional consideration to the City and the securing of satisfactory releases, permissions and other documents.

 D. Cross-Promotional Activities:

 Concessionaire shall develop and implement a cross-promotional strategy in cooperation with the Director, whereby Seattle Center may promote itself, events and activities using the Concessionaire's communications and promotional tools. The Concessionaire may promote events and activities by way of the Seattle Center communications systems and use Seattle Center's promotional tools with the Director's permission.

 E. Promotional Materials: Incorporation of Seattle Center Logo:

 If Approved by the Director, Concessionaire may incorporate the Seattle Center logo on all of its collateral pieces, advertisements, website and all press releases.

 F. Linked Websites:

 Concessionaire shall maintain a link between its website and the Seattle Center website.

 G. Booths:

 Concessionaire shall reserve two (2) booth spaces for the exclusive use of Seattle Center to promote the Center, its events and/or activities. Seattle Center booths shall not conflict with event sponsors.

 13. MAINTENANCE, CLEANING, AND REPAIR.

 A. City's Responsibilities:

 The City shall maintain, clean, and repair the exterior and structural aspects of the permanent facilities on the Premises and the common areas, and all fixtures and improvements installed by the City therein, and shall clean the general grounds areas of the Seattle Center, all to the ordinary standard of maintenance, cleaning, and repair provided for other major users of the facilities and grounds at Seattle Center, and shall keep the same in good condition, normal wear and tear and damage and destruction by fire and other extraordinary casualty excepted. The City will provide or undertake general gardening and landscaping; sanitary control; removal of snow; removal of garbage and other refuse from the City's designated locations; and repair of water, sanitary sewer, and storm water lines connecting with similar lines on the Premises consistent with such repair, cleaning and maintenance obligation. In undertaking such maintenance, cleaning and repair, the City shall make a good faith effort to not unreasonably interfere with Concessionaire's business on and from the Premises. Concessionaire waives all claims for damages, including for any loss of business, resulting from City maintenance, cleaning and repair.

 B. Concessionaire's Responsibilities:

 Concessionaire, at its own cost and expense, shall keep the Premises and all improvements, alterations, and additions thereto, and Concessionaire's fixtures, furnishings, and trade equipment at all times in a neat, clean, and sanitary condition, and shall permit no waste, damage, or injury thereto. Concessionaire shall also preserve the Premises and all improvements thereto in good repair, except for the effects of normal wear and tear and damage by fire or other unavoidable casualty. In carrying out such responsibilities Concessionaire, among other things, shall:

 (1) Pay Seattle Center or Seattle Center's contractor to replace any glass in any window, door, display case or other equipment immediately after it becomes cracked or broken.

 (2) Keep all drainage pipes free and open and pay any and all costs associated with the cleaning of storm drains due to improper disposal of grey water or other materials into storm drains on the Premises.

 (3) Repair all damage from leaky plumbing or drainage pipes not installed on the Premises by the City or caused by Concessionaire's failure to keep drainage pipes free and open.

 (4) Remove, periodically, in a timely and careful manner and to an area designated by the Director, all debris generated by or peculiar to Concessionaire's operations on the Premises, e.g. grease and ashes.

 (5) Prevent the presence of vermin, insects, and other pests on the Premises.

 14. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.

 A. General Requirements:

 Concessionaire, at its sole cost and expense, shall comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and Ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 B. Licenses and Similar Authorizations:

 Concessionaire, at no expense to the City, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement, all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 C. Taxes:

 Concessionaire shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities on or occupancy of the Premises, including, but not limited to taxes arising out of the activity or business conducted on the Premises, such as the rental or sale of goods or services; equipment and improvements on the Premises; and taxes on Concessionaire's interest in this Agreement.

 D. Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action:

 Concessionaire will comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle, including the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), notably SMC 20.44, and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 E. Applicable Law:

 This Agreement shall be construed under the laws of the State of Washington. Venue for any action hereunder shall be in the King County Superior Court.

 15. CITY'S POWER TO CONTROL BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS AND ACTIVITIES.

 A. City's Powers of Control:

 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the City, without liability of any kind, may:

 (1) Increase, reduce, and change in any manner whatsoever the number, appearance, dimensions, and locations of the Seattle Center walks, buildings, landscaping, parking, and service areas, and may also make improvements, alterations, and additions to the common areas;

 (2) Regulate all traffic within and adjacent to the Seattle Center;

 (3) Impose a reasonable charge for admission to the Seattle Center and facilities therein, including parking facilities; provided, that no City fee or charge shall be imposed for such admission during a Festival (other than for parking or admission to a facility not used for Festival purposes) unless such fee or charge is effective during the thirty (30) days prior to and after such Festival;

 (4) Erect, display and remove promotional exhibits and materials and permit special events on the Seattle Center grounds, buildings, and facilities including the common areas;

 (5) Promulgate, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations regarding the use and occupancy of any area of Seattle Center;

 (6) Restrict or prohibit the parking on City-owned or leased property of motor vehicles owned or operated by Concessionaire and any of its officers, employees, agents, suppliers, and invitees;

 (7) Determine the days and hours the Seattle Center and various business operations will be open to the public; provided, that the operating hours of the Festival shall not be changed without the prior consent of Concessionaire; and

 (8) Change the size, number, and type and identity of other concessions, stores, businesses, and operations being conducted or undertaken at Seattle Center.

 (9) Close or end the Festival early in the event of a public safety issue or concern.

 B. Concessionaire's Option to Terminate or Reservation of the Right to Terminate should the City Exercise its Options under Subsection 15.A or Section 27:

 The Director shall promptly inform Concessionaire if the City intends exercising any power under Subsection 15.A or Section 27 hereof. If Concessionaire reasonably determines that the exercise of such City power will negatively impact Concessionaire or its subconcessionaires, whether financially or as to the quality of the Festival, Concessionaire shall have the option to either terminate this Agreement immediately, or to reserve such right and await the conclusion of the next scheduled Festival in order to determine the impact of the exercise of any such City power. In order to exercise either option, Concessionaire must give notice thereof to the Director within thirty (30) days after Concessionaire's receipt of the Director's notice of exercise specified above. If Concessionaire exercises its option to terminate this Agreement, such termination shall be effective upon the Director's receipt of Concessionaire's notice. If, however, Concessionaire reserves its right to terminate this Agreement and elects to await the conclusion of the next scheduled Festival to determine the impact of the City's exercise of power, Concessionaire may terminate this Agreement only by providing a written notice of termination to the Director by November 1st of that Festival Year, which termination shall be effective immediately. In all cases where Concessionaire elects to exercise its option to terminate this agreement as provided herein, Concessionaire shall pay all applicable fees and charges due from Concessionaire's operations and use of the Premises through the effective date of termination.

 16. CITY'S RIGHT TO DISAPPROVE MERCHANDISE AND PRICES.

 In order to protect the public visiting Seattle Center from price gouging, and to ensure that a variety and diversity of food, beverages, merchandise, services and entertainment are offered to the same, and to protect the public image of the City, the City reserves the right to:

 A. Prohibit Price Gouging:

 Disapprove the price of any food, beverage, item of merchandise, or service that is substantially higher than the price charged by a substantially similar business in the region, and prohibit the charging of such substantially higher price.

 B. Prohibit the Sale of Objectionable Materials:

 Prohibit the sale of any food, beverage, items of merchandise, or service that the Director determines is unsafe; portrays the City or Seattle Center or any aspect thereof in any incorrect, misleading, or unfavorable manner; depicts or suggests in words, symbols, illustrations, or other forms, any act of violence, or any lewd, immoral, or obscene activity; is inappropriate for a family-oriented recreation and entertainment facility such as Seattle Center; or that may create a substantial litter or other maintenance problem at Seattle Center.

 17. CITY'S RIGHT TO PREMISES: INSPECTION, REPAIR, AND IMPROVEMENT OF PREMISES AND OTHER PROPERTY.

 A. Access to Premises:

 Concessionaire shall provide the City with access to the Premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same and to make any repair, improvement, alteration or addition thereto or any property owned by or under control of the City, deemed necessary by the Director, but this right of access shall not impose on the City any obligation to make any repair, alteration, addition, or improvement except as specifically provided herein.

 B. Permitted Interference with Concessionaire's Operations:

 In inspecting, and in making repairs, alterations, additions, and improvements, the City may erect barricades and scaffolding in and outside of the Premises, and may otherwise interfere with the conduct of the business and operations of Concessionaire and any of its subconcessionaires where such action is reasonably required by the nature of the City's work; and such interference shall not be deemed to be a breach or default under this Agreement. The City shall use its best efforts to minimize interference with access to and from the Premises and with business and operations in, on or from the Premises.

 C. Suspension of Concessionaire's Operations:

 If any such inspection, repair, alteration, addition, or improvement work necessitates the temporary suspension of the business or operations of Concessionaire or any of its subconcessionaires in, on, or from the Premises for a period of two (2) hours or less, the Director shall give Concessionaire notice of such necessity and the anticipated beginning and ending dates of such suspension. Concessionaire waives on behalf of itself and shall obtain from each of its subconcessionaires a waiver of all claims for damages and for any injury to or interference with business operations and losses occasioned by any such suspension.

 D. City's Retention and Use of Key to Premises:

 For each of the aforesaid purposes, the City shall at all times have and retain a key with which to unlock all of the doors in, upon, and about the Premises, excluding the vaults, safes, and files of Concessionaire and any of its subconcessionaires. The City shall have the right to use any and all means which the Director deems proper to open said doors in an emergency, in order to obtain entry, without liability to Concessionaire or any of its subconcessionaires except for any failure to exercise due care for Concessionaire's or subconcessionaires' property. Any entry to the Premises obtained by the City by any of said means, or otherwise, shall not under any circumstances be construed or deemed to be a forcible or unlawful entry into, or a detainer of, the Premises or a termination of this license to use and occupy the Premises or any portion thereof.

 18. ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER.

 Concessionaire shall not assign or transfer this Agreement or any rights hereunder without the Approval of the Director. Neither this Agreement, nor any right, privilege, or interest conferred shall pass to any trustee or receiver in bankruptcy or to any receiver or assignee for the benefit of creditors; nor shall this Agreement or any rights, privilege, or interest be transferable by operation of law or proceeding of any court. Any attempted assignment in violation of this provision shall immediately terminate this Agreement. If Concessionaire is a partnership, limited or general, a withdrawal of a general partner, or change, voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, or a general partner thereof, shall be deemed an assignment. If Concessionaire is a corporation, the merger, consolidation, or liquidation of Concessionaire or any change in the ownership of or power to vote thirty-three and one-third percent (33 1/3%) or more of its capital stock, as held as of the date of execution of this Agreement, shall be deemed an assignment except for transfers of stock to Jody May, an individual, or to a trust for her benefit, which transfers are hereby approved. If Concessionaire in any manner permits anyone to occupy all or any portion of the Premises for any purpose including conducting business or other activities, whether or not business related, not within the intent of this Agreement, such permission shall be deemed an assignment. No assignment of this Agreement, with or without the Director's consent, shall release or relieve Concessionaire of or from any of the obligations on Concessionaire's part to be kept and performed under this Agreement. Any such assignment shall be subject to all the terms and provisions of this Agreement. If this Agreement is assigned, Concessionaire shall cause to be delivered to the Director, in care of the Contracts and Concessions Office, simultaneously with such assignment, an instrument, in writing, executed by the assignee, in which the assignee shall assume and agree to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement on Concessionaire's part to be kept and performed that theretofore have not been fully performed.

 19. SUBCONCESSIONAIRE AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED.

 Concessionaire is hereby authorized to grant subordinate rights hereunder, including the right to use and occupy the Premises or such portions thereof as may be specified by Concessionaire but only for the purpose of engaging in food, beverage, food- or beverage-related merchandise sales or demonstrations, and novelty sales, all during a Festival, and only to:

 * Food and/or beverage service providers (food service establishments);

 * Food or beverage service-related merchandise retailers;

 * Food or beverage service-related merchandise demonstrators;

 * Retailers of sunglasses, novelties imprinted with the words "Bite of Seattle", and other novelties that have been approved for sale on the Premises by the Director.

 20. DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION.

 A. Concessionaire's Report of Damage:

 Concessionaire shall submit a written report to the Director, in care of the Contracts and Concessions Office, regarding the circumstances of any damage to the Premises within twenty-four (24) hours after such damage occurs.

 B. Obligation to Pay Fees and Charges in the Event of Damage or Destruction:

 If the Premises are destroyed by fire or other casualty not occasioned by an act or omission of Concessionaire, or are damaged so extensively as to render the Premises unusable, Concessionaire's obligation to pay fees and charges therefor shall be suspended until the Premises are made usable. If only a portion of the Premises are damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty not occasioned by an act or omission of Concessionaire and the Premises remain usable, the fees and charges hereunder shall be prorated and Concessionaire shall pay only fees and charges in an amount proportionate to the extent of the Premises that remain usable for the purposes identified in Section 2, hereof.

 C. Concessionaire's Right to Terminate:

 Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary, if fifty percent (50%) or more of the Premises is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty not occasioned by an act or omission of Concessionaire, Concessionaire may terminate this Agreement by providing notice thereof to the City within (60) days after the occurrence of the damage or destruction and shall specify the effective date of such termination.

 D. City's Right to Terminate:

 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if fifty percent (50%) of the Premises is destroyed or is so damaged by fire or other casualty as to be untenantable or unusable, or if the City desires to discontinue Concessionaire's operations because of substantial destruction of the Premises or other part of Seattle Center, regardless of whether the Premises are destroyed, damaged, or otherwise, the City may terminate this Agreement by providing prior notice thereof to Concessionaire.

 E. Notice of Termination:

 Any notice of termination pursuant to this section shall be provided within sixty (60) days after the occurrence of the damage or destruction and shall specify the effective date of such termination.

 21. DEFAULT AND BREACH; TERMINATION THEREFOR.

 A. Act of Default and Breach of Concessionaire:

 The following acts and omissions shall constitute a default and material breach of this Agreement by Concessionaire:

 (1) The failure to comply with all of the requirements of Section 8 hereof, regarding insurance; or

 (2) The violation of any law, Charter provision, ordinance, rule, regulation, order, or directive; or

 (3) The failure of Concessionaire to provide, in a timely manner all fees and charges due and owing, and all written reports due to the City; or

 (4) The assignment of Concessionaire's interest in this Agreement without the prior written consent of the Director; or the filing of a voluntary or involuntary petition in bankruptcy, or for reorganization or an arrangement; or the adjudication of Concessionaire as being bankrupt or insolvent; or the appointment of a receiver of or for Concessionaire if such appointment, adjudication or similar order or ruling remains in force or unstayed for a period of thirty (30) days; or

 (5) The failure to perform or the violation of any other condition or covenant of this Agreement where such default or deficiency in performance was not remedied within a reasonable time determined by the Director.

 B. City's Notice of Default and Breach:

 The Director shall provide notice to Concessionaire of any event of default, specifying the nature of the act or omission, the reasonable number of hours or days (not to exceed sixty [60] days after the date of the notice) within which such failure must be corrected or the violation must be ceased or remedied to avoid termination, and the City's intention to terminate this Agreement if such act or omission has not been corrected within such stated period.

 C. Remedies Upon Termination:

 If Concessionaire fails to correct, remedy, or cease such failure or violation within the time specified in the City's notice, the City may terminate this Agreement without any further proceedings, re-enter the Premises, lease and license others to use said Premises during any portion of the period of use remaining under this Agreement had it not been terminated, and receive rent and license fees therefor. Notwithstanding any such termination and re-entry, Concessionaire's liability for the minimum fees and charges to be paid to the City hereunder shall not be extinguished, and Concessionaire shall pay to the City the difference between said fees and charges and the sum the City receives for the use of the Premises any other users beginning on the date Concessionaire's rights under this Agreement are terminated and ending one year beyond the current Festival year, or the expiration of this Agreement, whichever is sooner. The extent of Concessionaire's liability for the year beyond the current Festival year shall be limited to the prior years' Landscape Maintenance Fee, but in no event less than $35,000. Such payment shall be made within fifteen (15) days after the date of the City's invoice therefore. Such termination and payments shall not relieve Concessionaire from liability to the City for any damages caused by Concessionaire's default and breach and expenses incurred in the leasing or licensing of the Premises.

 D. Default By The City:

 The City shall not be in default of any obligation to perform under this Agreement unless the City fails to perform such obligation within a reasonable time, which time shall not extend more than thirty (30) days after notice by Concessionaire to the City specifying the particular obligation that the City has failed to perform; provided, however, that if the nature of the City's obligation is such that more than thirty (30) days are required for performance, then the City shall not be in default if the City commences performance within such thirty (30) day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 22. SURRENDER OF PREMISES, HOLDING OVER.

 A. Surrender and Delivery:

 Upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, and in no event later than 7:00 p.m. on the first Tuesday following each Festival, Concessionaire shall surrender the Premises and promptly deliver to the Director all keys Concessionaire, its subconcessionaires and any of their officers, agents, and employees may have to any portion of the Seattle Center and the Premises.

 B. Removal of Concessionaire's and Subconcessionaire's Property:

 Prior to the conclusion of each Festival, or within five (5) days after the termination of this Agreement, Concessionaire shall remove all fixtures, furnishings, trade equipment, and personal property owned or installed by Concessionaire or any of its subconcessionaires in, on, or from the Premises, taking due care to not unreasonably injure or damage the Premises, and shall ensure that such repairs to the Premises as shall be necessary are made, at no cost to the City, to restore the Premises to their condition as of the commencement date of this Agreement, ordinary wear and tear and improvements, additions, and alterations Approved by the City excepted. Except as may be required by the Director, improvements, additions, and alterations installed on the Premises by the City shall not be removed.

 C. Storage of Concessionaire's and Subconcessionaires' Property:

 If Concessionaire fails to remove all fixtures, furnishings, trade equipment, and other personal property owned or installed by or for Concessionaire or any of its subconcessionaires on or by the time specified in Subsection 22.B, hereof, the City may, but shall not be required to remove such material from the Premises and store the same, all at Concessionaire's expense; and if the City removes or arranges for the storage of such material, the City shall be reimbursed its costs therefor, including any administrative costs, which reimbursement shall constitute a claim upon Concessionaire.

 D. Hold-over Use and Occupancy of Premises:

 If Concessionaire, with or without consent, holds over after the expiration or termination of this Agreement or the deadline for Surrender and Delivery specified in Subsection 22 A., Concessionaire shall pay to the City an additional holdover fee in the amount of $5,000 within twenty (20) days after the date of a City invoice therefor, and shall continue to be bound by all the provisions of this Agreement.

 E. No Claims For Removal:

 In no event shall Concessionaire or any of its subconcessionaires make any claim or demand upon the City nor shall the City be liable for any inconvenience, annoyance, disturbance, or loss of business or any other damage suffered by Concessionaire or any of its subconcessionaires arising out of such removal operations under Subsection 22.B or 22.C, hereof.

 23. NOTICES AND OTHER DELIVERABLE MATERIALS.

 All notices required by this Agreement shall be in writing. Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, all notices and other material to be delivered hereunder shall be delivered or mailed to the following:

 To City: Event Service Representative, Bite of Seattle

 Seattle Center

 305 Harrison Street

 Seattle, Washington 98109

 To Concessionaire: Festivals, Inc.

 d/b/a Bite of Seattle

 Suite 230

 13555 SE 36th ST

 Bellevue, WA 98006

 or such other respective addresses as either party may from time to time designate in writing.

 24. NO RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED.

 The City shall in no event be construed to be a partner, associate, or joint venturer of Concessionaire, or any party associated with Concessionaire. Concessionaire is not an agent of the City for any purpose whatsoever. Concessionaire shall not create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of the City or bind the City in any manner.

 25. SEATTLE CENTER DIRECTOR'S AUTHORITY.

 The term "Seattle Center Director" or "Director", as used throughout this Agreement in regard to permission, warrant, consent, approval, rights, interpretation, and discretionary matters, shall mean the Seattle Center Director or his/her designee. The action of the Seattle Center Director or his/her designee pursuant to or in implementation of this Agreement does not constitute any official action by any other City Department or official that may be required by law, ordinance, rule or regulation before Concessionaire may rightfully commence, suspend, enlarge or terminate any particular undertaking or may obtain or exercise any particular right or privilege under this Agreement. Decisions to be made by the Seattle Center Director shall be left to his/her reasonable discretion.

 26. AMENDMENTS.

 No modifications or amendment of the terms hereof shall be effective unless in writing and signed by authorized representatives of the parties hereto. The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to modify this Agreement from time to time, by mutual agreement.

 27. REDEVELOPMENT MODIFICATIONS.

 The Director and Concessionaire, or their designees, shall meet on or before the October 15th of each year during the term of this Agreement to discuss the impacts, if any, of on-going and any planned Seattle Center redevelopment activity that might affect the next succeeding Festival. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if the Director determines, in the exercise of his/her discretion, that in order to facilitate the redevelopment of the Seattle Center, any portion of the Premises is required for some use or purpose other than that contemplated by the parties under this Agreement, the Director shall have the power to materially change the Premises without recourse by Concessionaire. The Director shall notify Concessionaire of any such material change and the effective date thereof, not less than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the Festival that would be affected by such change.

 28. NO WAIVER.

 No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed, or operate, as a waiver of any subsequent default of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement. The payment or acceptance of any compensation or fee for any period after a default shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or acceptance of defective performance.

 29. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.

 Rights under this Agreement are cumulative; failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. Each party shall also have any other remedy given by the law. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 30. USE OF LANGUAGE.

 Terms used in the neuter gender include the masculine and feminine; and terms used in the singular or plural include the other, as the context may require.

 31. CAPTIONS.

 The titles of sections are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 32. INVALIDITY OF PARTICULAR PROVISIONS.

 Should any term, provision, condition, or other portion of this Agreement or the application thereof be held to be inoperative, invalid, or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement or the application of such term or provision to person or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected hereby and shall continue in full force and effect.

 33. BINDING EFFECT.

 The provisions, covenants, and conditions contained in this Agreement apply to bind the parties, their legal heirs, representatives, successors, and assigns.

 34. PREVIOUS AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED.

 The terms and conditions of this Agreement supersede the terms, obligations and conditions of any existing or prior agreement between the parties regarding the subject matter hereof.

 35. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT.

 The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 36. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.

 This Agreement, including the Exhibits and Addenda attached hereto and forming a part hereof, are all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions, either oral or written, between the parties.

 37. DEFINITIONS.

 "Approval," "Approve," "Approved" means the prior written approval of the Director or the Director's designee.

 "Common Areas" means and includes any Seattle Center area designated by the City as being for the general use of tenants, licensees, concessionaires, patrons, employees, and invitees of the Seattle Center and not within the exclusive control of any tenant, licensee, or concessionaire. Such areas shall include but not be limited to parking areas, landscaped areas, areaways, roads, walks, corridors, malls, public toilets, public stairs, ramps, elevators, escalators, and shelters.

 "Gross Receipts" means and includes the total income of Concessionaire and every other person or entity conducting business in, on or from the Premises pursuant to this Agreement ("subconcessionaires") including but not limited to the proceeds from all retail and wholesale sales of food, beverages, and services; the sale and rental of all merchandise, of any kind whatsoever, for cash, barter, exchange or credit, regardless of collections; sales from vending devices; mail or telephone orders received or filled on or from the Premises; all deposits not refunded to purchasers; orders taken although filled elsewhere; fees; commissions; catalog sales; and rental receipts. All installment or credit sales shall be deemed to have been made for the full price on the date of sale regardless of when payment is received.

 The term "Gross Receipts" does not mean or include the amount of money refunded to, and not merely credited to the account of customers who return or do not accept merchandise or services sold by Concessionaire or any subconcessionaires; any exchange of merchandise between stores or the central warehouses of Concessionaire or any subconcessionaires where such exchange is made solely for the convenient operation of Concessionaire's or any subconcessionaires's business and not for the purpose of consummating a sale made in, on or from the Premises; returns to shippers or manufacturers; any discount allowed by Concessionaire or any subconcessionaires to customers; the Washington State Sales Tax and any other tax imposed by any government agency directly on sales.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this AGREEMENT to be executed by having its authorized representative affix his/her signature below:

 CONCESSIONAIRE: THE CITY OF SEATTLE:

 Festivals, Inc.

 d/b/a Bite of Seattle

 By: By:_________________

 Jody May, President Robert Nellams

 Seattle Center Director

 By:____________________

 Brett Gorrell, Vice President

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Festivals, Inc. Acknowledgement)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day of , 2006, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Jody May, to me known to be the President of Festivals, Inc., who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument for and on behalf of Festivals, Inc.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 (Signature) (Printed or typed name)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at My appointment expires

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss. (City Acknowledgment)

 THE COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day of , 2006, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Robert Nellams, to me known to be the Director of the Seattle Center Department of The City of Seattle, who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument for and on behalf of The City of Seattle.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 (Signature) (Printed or typed name)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at My appointment expires

```
