

********

**Council Bill Number: 115610**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122234**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the transfer of City real property; authorizing the transfer of 1618-30 South Dearborn Street to the Low- income Housing Institute or its designee; authorizing the Director of the Office of Housing to execute, deliver, and administer the contract for transfer of land, deed and related documents; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 18, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 28, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 25, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 19, 2006
   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services and Health
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** OFFICE-OF-HOUSING, SALES, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, CENTRAL-AREA

**Fiscal Note:**115610

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the transfer of City real property; authorizing the transfer of 1618-30 South Dearborn Street to the Low- income Housing Institute or its designee; authorizing the Director of the Office of Housing to execute, deliver, and administer the contract for transfer of land, deed and related documents; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 WHEREAS, the City obtained ownership of certain parcels known as the "Dearborn-Hiawatha Properties" from the State of Washington, Seattle Housing Authority, King County, and private owners; and

 WHEREAS, the City issued a competitive Request for Developer Qualifications / Proposals to solicit proposals for redevelopment of one or more of the Dearborn-Hiawatha Properties; and

 WHEREAS, in response to the Request for Developer Qualifications / Proposals, the Low-income Housing Institute submitted a proposal dated May 6, 2004 to acquire the 1618-30 South Dearborn Street parcel and construct a project containing homeownership units; and

 WHEREAS, the Director of the City's Office of Housing has determined that the Low-income Housing Institute proposal is complete and responsive to the Request for Developer Qualifications / Proposals, and recommends that the City Council authorize transfer of ownership of the 1618-30 South Dearborn Street parcel to the Low-income Housing Institute or a designee approved by the Director;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of the Office of Housing ("Director") is authorized to enter into and perform an agreement ("Agreement") with the Low-income Housing Institute (LIHI), a Washington nonprofit corporation, or with a designee of LIHI approved by the Director (LIHI and any approved designee, and any assignee of the Agreement approved by the Director, are referred to as "Transferee"), for the transfer of the property legally described as:

 Parcel tax numbers: 7132300035 and 7132300040

 Legal description: Lots 7, 8, 9 and 10, Block 1, Rainier Boulevard Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the Plat thereof recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, Page 59, in King County, Washington

 (the "Property") on the terms and subject to the conditions authorized in this ordinance. The Agreement shall reflect the provisions included in the Term Sheet attached to this ordinance as Attachment A, with such revisions and additions, not inconsistent with the express terms of this ordinance or with applicable law, as the Director may determine are reasonably necessary to carry out the intent of this ordinance. Upon transfer of the Property, Transferee shall pay the cash downpayment set forth in Attachment A and shall sign and deliver to the City a promissory note ("Note") in the amount of $377,455.00 secured by a deed of trust on the Property, in accordance with the Agreement. The terms of the Note shall be substantially as set forth in Attachment A except as they may be modified by written agreement based on a determination by the Director that, after review of the Transferee's development plans and the reasonable costs of developing the housing and maintaining long- term affordability, the terms in Attachment A are or may be more favorable than reasonably required in order for Transferee to provide and maintain long-term affordable housing at the income levels established under commitments to the City. In order to carry out the Agreement for and on behalf of the City, the Director is authorized to execute a deed for the Property, substantially in the form attached to this ordinance as Attachment B, and upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent under the Agreement, except for any that may be waived in writing by the Director, the Director is authorized to cause the deed to be recorded and delivered to the Transferee. The Director is authorized to execute, deliver, accept, record, modify, enforce and administer such other documents, which may include amendments and extensions to the Agreement, and take such other actions, as she shall deem necessary or advisable to implement the purpose of this ordinance.

 Section 2. The Agreement shall require Transferee to use diligent efforts to pursue design work, financing applications, environmental reports, permit applications and all other steps necessary to construct and permanently finance improvements on the Property as described in Section 3 of this ordinance. All such efforts of Transferee shall be at its own expense and risk. The Agreement may provide interim deadlines as deemed appropriate by the Director, which may be extended in the discretion of the Director. The Agreement shall terminate if the conditions to transfer of the Property by the City are not satisfied within fifteen (15) months of the effective date of this ordinance, except that extensions may be granted by the Director if in her judgment an extension furthers the City's objectives.

 Section 3. The improvements to be developed on the Property are to include approximately 18 housing units for initial sale to households with income at or below 80% of median family income, as defined in the Agreement, with sale prices affordable to such households as determined in the Agreement. Future sale prices shall be restricted to maintain affordability to low-income households, as defined in the Agreement. At least 12 of the units will be 2 bedrooms with the remaining units being 1 or 3 bedroom units.

 Section 4. The disposition procedures in the I-90 Area Development Policies, as adopted in Resolution 27901 and amended in Resolution 29258, and provisions of such Policies with respect to intended or preferred uses or development, shall be waived with respect to the transfer of the Property to Transferee.

 Section 5. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment A: Term Sheet

 Attachment B: Form of Quitclaim Deed

 ATTACHMENT A: TERM SHEET

 TRANSFER OF PROPERTY FROM THE CITY OF SEATTLE (hereafter "City")

 TO LOW INCOME HOUSING INSTITUTE (LIHI) OR ITS ASSIGNEE (hereafter "Purchaser")

 This term sheet describes the basic terms of the proposed transfer of property between Purchaser and City. Any binding commitment by the City to transfer the property will be made only after City Council approval by ordinance and upon signing of a definitive agreement (the "Agreement"). The Agreement is intended to include the following terms:

 1. Transfer. City shall transfer to Purchaser certain real property located in the City of Seattle, commonly known as 1618-30 South Dearborn Street ("Property").

 2. Price; Security. The transfer shall be for a stated price of $400,000, of which $22,545 will be due at closing and the balance deferred. Purchaser shall sign a non-recourse promissory note, with a maturity of 99 years and no scheduled payments prior to maturity, in the amount of $377,455, secured by a first deed of trust on the Property, with 1% simple interest accruing annually. Generally, the City shall have the right to require full payment prior to maturity if the land portion of the Property ceases to be owned by a nonprofit entity dedicated to maintaining homeownership for low-income buyers of homes on the land. The City shall have the right to call the balance of principal and interest due under certain other circumstances outlined in the Agreement.

 3. Development Plan:

 a) The Agreement shall require Purchaser to use diligent efforts to pursue design work, financing applications, environmental reports, permit applications and all other steps necessary to construct and permanently finance 18 units of homeownership housing on the Property. It is understood that the results of environmental review or regulatory processes could result in only a smaller number of units being feasible, and neither the Agreement nor the ordinance approving it shall be construed as any determination or assurance of the number of units that will be permitted. At least 12 of the units will be 2 bedrooms with the remaining units being 1 or 3 bedroom units.

 b) Upon completion of Construction, Purchaser shall sell the units to qualified "low income buyers," generally defined as households with incomes at time of closing (purchase) at or below 80% of median family income for the Seattle area, adjusted for household size ("Eligible Households"). Eligible Households shall be required to provide no more than 5% of the sales price from their own funds. Sales prices shall be set so that Eligible Households shall not be required to pay more than 35% of household income for housing costs-- -housing costs include mortgage principle and interest, taxes, insurance, homeowner association dues and /or assessments.

 c) Upon completion of construction, Purchaser intends to transfer the land to a nonprofit "Land Trust" entity that will continue ownership of the land. That entity shall lease the land to homebuyers on terms approved by the City. The ground lease shall contain resale restrictions designed to allow the homes to be resold only to Eligible Households.

 d) The Purchaser shall use its best efforts to market the homes for sale.

 4. Remedies. If the Land Trust sells any home to a non-Eligible Household, or if any home is transferred to a non-Eligible Household or is transferred on terms contrary to the resale restrictions approved by the City, and the Land Trust thereafter fails to exercise the remedies available in the ground lease so as to cause the home to be transferred to an Eligible Household on terms consistent with the resale restrictions approved by the City, then the City shall have the right to accelerate a portion of the principal balance of the note and accrued interest on such portion. The portion of the note to be accelerated shall be based on a fraction, the numerator of which is 1 and the denominator of which is the number of homes constructed on the Property. For example, if 10 homes have been constructed, the City shall have the right to accelerate 1/10th of the principal balance of the note for each home that is transferred to a non-Eligible Household. If the accelerated portion remains unpaid after notice, then the City may accelerate the entire balance.

 5. Conditions precedent to the City's obligation to convey the property:

 a) Purchaser shall have obtained approval from the Director of the Office of Housing ("Director") for the schematic design (including the landscaping features), and any changes to the schematic design, and the construction documents consistent with the schematic design shall have been submitted to the Director.

 b) Purchaser shall have obtained the Master Use Permit for the development of the Property consistent with the schematic design and the grading permit required to prepare the site to commence construction for the improvements shall have been issued by the City's Department of Planning and Development ("DPD"), or DPD shall have given notice that such permit is ready to issue.

 c) Purchaser shall have provided evidence satisfactory to the City that Purchaser has the necessary financing to fund the construction of the improvements.

 d) Purchaser and the nonprofit entity shall provide all final ground lease and loan documents relating to sale to homebuyers to City for approval.

 e) Purchaser shall have provided a final proposal acceptable to the Director for use of City homebuyer program assistance funding, if needed, to help maintain the affordability of the units.

 6. Development Schedule.

 * Fifteen (15) months following the effective date of the ordinance ("Entitlement Date"), Purchaser shall have secured all required approvals to begin construction and closing of the transfer of the Property to Purchaser shall have occurred.

 * Twenty four (24) months following the Entitlement Date ("Completion Date"), Purchaser shall have completed construction.

 Purchaser may request extensions of either the Entitlement Date or the Completion Date by submitting a request to the City's Director of the Office of Housing.

 7. Transfer of Title / Closing/Possession. Closing shall take place on such date as the Purchaser may specify in a written notice to the City, delivered to the City at least 10 days in advance of the closing date specified in the written notice, but such notice may be given only after satisfaction of all conditions to closing. Title shall be conveyed by Quit Claim Deed, which shall reserve a power of termination, by which the City would have the right to reclaim title, subject to any City-approved construction mortgages, if the Purchaser did not complete construction in accordance with the Agreement by the Completion Date, as the same may have been extended. After closing, Purchaser will assure that the property is continuously insured against liability, in amounts and with coverages satisfactory to the City, with the City named as additional insured.

 8. Other conditions.

 * The agreement will contain other conditions determined by the City's Director of the Office of Housing to be necessary to provide desired outcomes.

 * The transfer to Purchaser shall be "AS IS," without any warranty as to any matters related to the condition of the premises, including without limitation the presence of any hazardous materials or underground tanks, or any other environmental matters.

 9. Expenses. Purchaser shall pay all costs of closing the transfer, including without limitation escrow fees and recording charges, and shall pay for any title insurance policy desired by Purchaser.

 Attachment B: Form of Quitclaim Deed

 After recording, return to:

 Seattle Office of Housing

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5700

 Seattle, WA 981124-4725

 Attn: Rick Hooper

 QUITCLAIM DEED SUBJECT TO CONDITION SUBSEQUENT / POWER OF TERMINATION, with GRANTEE's COVENANTS, RELEASES AND INDEMNITY

 Reference number of related documents: N/A

 Grantor: The City of Seattle

 Grantee: [LOW INCOME HOUSING INSTITUTE or Designee]

 Grant. The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Grantor"), for consideration described in that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement described below, hereby conveys and quit claims to _______________________________________ ("Grantee"), that certain real property located in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, and legally described as follows ("Property"):

 Lots 7, 8, 9 and 10, Block 1, Rainier Boulevard Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the Plat thereof recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, Page 59, in King County, Washington.

 Pursuant to Seattle Ordinance ___________, this deed is made subject to, and the Grantor reserves the rights and interests of The City of Seattle set forth in, that certain Covenant for Low-Income Housing granted by Grantee dated as of the date hereof and recorded on the date of recording hereof, which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 Grantee's Covenants, Releases and Indemnity ("Covenant")

 The Property is conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL-FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE GRANTEE'S INTENDED USES AND PURPOSES. Grantee acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or other conditions (including without limitation, adverse environmental soils and ground- water conditions), either latent or patent, may exist on the Property and assumes Grantor's responsibility for all environmental conditions of the Property, known or unknown, including but not limited to responsibility, if any, for investigation, removal or remediation actions relating to the presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance or other environmental contamination relating to the Property. Grantee also releases, covenants not to sue, and shall indemnify, defend, and hold Grantor and its past, present and future officials, employees, and agents, harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, penalties, fees, damages, losses, expenses (including but not limited to fees and costs of regulatory agencies, attorneys, contractors and consultants), and liabilities arising out of, or in any way connected with, the condition of the Property including but not limited to any alleged or actual past, present or future presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property, or any portion thereof or improvement thereon, from any cause whatsoever; it being intended that Grantee shall so indemnify Grantor and such personnel without regard to any fault or responsibility of Grantor or Grantee. Grantee is aware of the rights it might otherwise have to seek recovery from Grantor for costs of remediation and cleanup of Hazardous Substances under applicable law, including without limitation the Washington Model Toxics Control Act ("MTCA") and the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), and Grantee hereby knowingly waives all such rights, now existing or hereafter arising, and voluntarily relinquishes those rights and forever releases the Grantor from any such obligation. The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property and the acknowledgements, releases, and covenants herein touch and concern the Property, are intended to run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Grantor and its successors and assigns.

 For purposes of this Covenant, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs") and compounds containing them; lead; asbestos or asbestos-containing materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage tanks; and any substance or material that is now is or hereafter becomes regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or other law relating to environmental protection, contamination or cleanup.

 Grantee's release and covenant not to sue shall include both claims by Grantee as original plaintiff against Grantor and any cross-claims, third-party claims or other claims against Grantor by Grantee based upon claims made against Grantee by any third parties. The obligation to indemnify and defend shall include, but not be limited to, any liability of Grantor to any and all federal, state or local regulatory agencies or other persons or entities for remedial action costs and natural resources damages claims. This Covenant means that Grantee accepts the Property "as-is, where-is and with-all-faults," and that Grantee assumes all responsibility of Grantor to investigate, remove and remediate any environmental conditions on the Property and has no recourse against Grantor or any of its officers, employees or agents for any claim or liability with respect to the Property. This Covenant shall apply regardless of whether or not Grantee is culpable, negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation. Nothing herein shall release, discharge or affect any rights or causes of action that Grantor or Grantee may have against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly stated herein, and each of the parties reserves all such rights including, but not limited to, claims for contribution or cost recovery relating to any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property.

 Nondiscrimination. Grantee further covenants that there shall be no discrimination upon the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, in the sale, lease or rental, or in the use or occupancy, of the Property or any improvements erected or to be erected thereon. Both the Grantor and the United States of America shall be entitled to enforce this paragraph, which shall run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns.

 The terms of this Covenant are in addition to, and not in substitution for, those terms of the Purchase and Sale Agreement dated ______________, 2006 between Grantor and Grantee (the "Contract") that, by the terms of such Contract, survive the delivery of this deed.

 Condition Subsequent / Power of Termination. This conveyance is subject to the following condition and power of termination, which shall be binding on the Grantee and its successors and assigns, and to which Grantee agrees on behalf of Grantee and its successors and assigns:

 1. Condition Subsequent. This Deed and all rights of Grantee hereunder are subject to a condition subsequent upon the occurrence of which Grantor or its governmental successors or assigns shall have the absolute right, subject only to the express limitations set forth herein, to terminate, by notice to Grantee or by reentering and taking possession of the Property, the estate conveyed under this deed and all rights of all persons claiming by or through Grantee, whereupon fee simple title to the Property shall revest entirely in Grantor or its governmental successors or assigns. The condition subsequent shall have occurred unless the following shall have occurred on or before ___________: Grantee shall have obtained from the Seattle Department of Planning and Development ("DPD") the Certificate of Occupancy for the Property consistent with the Schematic Design and Summary Description. The foregoing notwithstanding, any exercise of the power of termination shall be subject to, and shall not impair the lien of, any mortgages or deeds of trust to which the Grantor shall have given its written consent pursuant to the Agreement.

 2. Certificate of Compliance. Upon recording of a Certificate of Compliance duly signed by the Director of the Office of Housing of the Grantor, stating that the Grantee has timely satisfied the above requirement such that the condition subsequent cannot occur, or that if such requirement has not been timely satisfied it has been waived by the City, the condition subsequent in this deed shall be of no further force or effect.

 3. Miscellaneous. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Contract. Time is of the essence of all of the provisions hereof.

 Executed this ____day of ___________, 2006, pursuant to Ordinance _________ of The City of Seattle.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: Adrienne E. Quinn, Director

 Office of Housing

 Grantee:

 By:

 Print Name:

 Print Title:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________, 2006, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Adrienne E. Quinn, to me known to be the Director of the Office of Housing of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal corporation on behalf of which the within and foregoing instrument was executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this instrument above written.

 (Signature) (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at .

 My commission expires ____________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________, 2006, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of _____________, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ______________________, to me known to be the __________________________ of ______________________, or it's designee, a Washington corporation on behalf of which the within and foregoing instrument was executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this instrument above written.

 (Signature) (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of _____________, residing at

 My commission expires __________

```
