

********

**Council Bill Number: 115706**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122255**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the settlement of a dispute between Seattle Public Utilities and the Cedar River Water and Sewer District; authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to enter into an agreement granting the District an easement for a new pump station on City property located near 16500 140th Avenue SE in Renton, Washington; and authorizing payment to the District of $425,000.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 2, 2006
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Drago)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 10, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 10, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 5, 2006
   
**Committee:** Environment, Emergency Management and Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, WATER-SUPPLY-FACILITIES, WATER-SUPPLY, LAND-ACQUISITION, WATER-DISTRICTS, CLAIMS, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**115706

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the settlement of a dispute between Seattle Public Utilities and the Cedar River Water and Sewer District; authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to enter into an agreement granting the District an easement for a new pump station on City property located near 16500 140th Avenue SE in Renton, Washington; and authorizing payment to the District of $425,000.

 WHEREAS, the Fairwood Pump Station, which is owned by the Cedar River Water and Sewer District (District), is located on the City 's Lake Youngs Tunnel pipeline right of way; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities (SPU) and the District have operated the Fairwood Pump Station by agreement since 1980; and

 WHEREAS, the City's activation of its new Cedar River Treatment Plan caused unexpected damage to the Fairwood Pump Station; and

 WHEREAS, the District filed a claim for damages against the City for such damage; and

 WHEREAS, SPU has determined that it would be in its best interest for the pump station to be relocated, and the District concurs; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his designee, is hereby authorized to enter into an Agreement for Relocating Cedar River Pump Station and Amendment 1 thereto (Amended Agreement), substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1. Under this Amended Agreement: (a) the District agrees to demolish its existing Fairwood Pump Station and to construct, elsewhere on City property, a new pump station that will be owned, operated and maintained solely by the District; (b) the City agrees to grant the District a nonexclusive easement of the property legally described in Attachment 2 for the pump station; and (c) the City agrees to pay a one-time lump sum of $425,000 to the District in consideration of the District's full and final release of claims related to the damage to the Fairwood Pump Station.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Amended Agreement, including:

 Agreement for Relocating Cedar River Pump Station;

 Exhibit A: Easement Agreement;

 Attachment A to Exhibit A: Legal Description of Easement Area;

 Attachment B to Exhibit A: Depiction of Easement Area;

 Exhibit B: Parcel Diagram;

 Amendment 1 to Agreement for Relocating Cedar River Pump Station; and

 Exhibit A to Amendment 1: Claim for Damages.

 Attachment 2: Legal Description of Easement Area.

 Lisa Espinosa

 SPU Cedar River W&SD Ord

 July 12, 2006

 Version #9

 3

 ATTACHMENT 1 Agreement for Relocating Cedar River Pump Station

 THIS AGREEMENT is entered into this ____ day of _____________, 2006, by and between the City of Seattle (City) and Cedar River Water and Sewer District (District) for the purpose of relocating the District's Fairwood Pump Station.

 R E CI T A L S:

 WHEREAS, the District's Fairwood Pump Station, which rests on the City's Lake Youngs Tunnel pipeline right of way at the approximate location of station 89+04 between 140th Avenue SE and Petrovitsky Road in King County, Washington, was built and has been operating under a Shared Cost Pump Station Agreement between the parties dated November 3, 1980 and a Lease dated November 24, , 1982;

 WHEREAS, unexpected damage of the District's Fairwood Pump Station resulted from the activation of the new Cedar River Treatment Plant operated by the City; and

 WHEREAS, the City has an obligation to mitigate the damage to the District's pump station; and

 WHEREAS, having the District pump directly from the Lake Youngs Tunnel poses a risk to that pipeline; and

 WHEREAS, it is in the mutual interest of the City and the District to disband the existing Fairwood Pump Station and build a new pump station at another location. NOW, THEREFORE,

 IN CONSIDERATION of the premises and the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, it is agreed by and between the parties hereto as follows:

 Section 1. Relocation of Pump Station. The District agrees to disband its existing Fairwood Pump Station and replace it with a new station to be located at the northeast corner of the City's Control Works property, described approximately as an area of 75 x 100 feet on the west side of 140th Avenue SE and approximately 40 feet south of the center line of the City's Finished Water Pipeline No. 4 ("FWPL4"), formerly known as Lake Youngs Bypass No. 4. The source of suction water will be the existing 12 inch outlet and valve connected to FWPL4 at Station 621+34 according the City's water system plans.

 The City and the District have agreed to an easement agreement ("Easement Agreement") for the new pump station and associated appurtenances to be executed and recorded concurrent with this agreement, and is included herein as Exhibit A. Attached is Exhibit B, a diagram of the easement parcel.

 The new pump station shall be constructed, owned, operated, and maintained by the District for the benefit of the District, and the District will be responsible for all costs incurred beyond the established amount noted below that the City will pay for the new pump station, its suction and discharge pipelines, a new wholesale meter installation built to the City's standard plans and specifications, fencing and gates, access improvements, drainage improvements, and the relocation of the existing Control Works perimeter access road around the new pump station and with the same surfacing as the existing road, provided that the City shall make the connection to the pipeline installed by the District at the City's expense.

 The City agrees to continue its current mode of water supply operations to the District so as to compensate for the inoperability of the District's existing Fairwood Pump Station until the relocated pump station becomes operational.

 Section 2. Review of Construction Plans; Construction. The District will be responsible for the design and permitting of all facilities. The District shall design the new pump station in accordance with sound municipal utility standards and the provisions of the Easement Agreement. The City's review and approval of the District's design and construction documents shall be conducted within 20 business days of receipt and limited to the pump station suction line and wholesale meter installation, the relocation of the Control Works perimeter road, site drainage to the extent it affects the rest of the City property, and modifications and additions to the access road off 140th Ave SE. The District shall advertise for construction of the new pump station and the associated site work, only after receipt of written approval by the City of the project elements expressly identified above herein. The District will let and administer the contract for all the work. The District will use reasonable efforts to complete the pump station before December 31, 2007. The City shall grant reasonable extensions in the event of unforeseen delays. If the new pump station has not commenced operation by January 1, 2008,

 District shall pay to City the pumping costs incurred by City in continuing the current mode of water supply operations to District. This obligation shall terminate when the new pump station commences operation.

 Section 3. Payment for Pump Station Relocation. The City shall pay a one-time lump sum amount of $425,000 to the District to complete the improvements identified in Section 1 herein, which shall be due and payable upon the issuance by the District of a Notice to Proceed to a construction contractor of its choice. The City shall not be responsible for costs beyond the $425,000 amount that may be incurred by the District to complete the improvements identified in Section 1 herein.

 Section 4. New wholesale service meter. As provided in Section 1 herein above, the District will design and construct a new suction line, equipped with a wholesale service billing meter installation, from the existing outlet and valve located at Station 621+34 of FWPL4 to the new pump station building to be located within the easement area ("Easement") as identified in the Easement Agreement. The wholesale meter installation shall be located outside the Easement, and shall be designed in accordance with City standards for such installations, including a pipe union located downstream of the meter at the Easement boundary. Upon completion of construction the District shall transfer ownership to the City of the suction line from the tap on FWPL4 to the union, including the wholesale meter installation, and the City shall be responsible for their operation and maintenance thenceforth. In addition, the City shall have the right to inspect the construction of the facilities located outside of the Easement for conformance with the design documents, and the District shall be responsible for any corrective measures requested by the City to assure such compliance.

 The District shall own and operate the portion of the suction line from the union to the pump station, the pump station itself, and the pump station discharge line from the pump station to the connection to the District's watermain in 140th Ave NE.

 Section 5. Previous Shared Cost Pump Station Agreement and Lease. The "Shared Cost Pump Station Agreement" between the City and the District dated November 3, 1980, and the Lease between the City and the District dated November 24, 1982 shall become null and void upon payment by the City to the District of the $425,000 amount as provided in Section 3 herein.

 Section 6. Ownership of the District's existing pump station building at Station 89+04 of the Lake Youngs Tunnel. The District shall transfer to the City ownership of the building of the existing pump station no later than 30 days from the day the new pump station commences operation. The District may salvage any of its equipment from the existing pump station prior to the date of the ownership transfer of said facility. The District shall furnish to the City an affidavit stating that to the District's knowledge no hazardous substances or materials are contained within the building. Following transfer of such ownership, the District shall be released from and have no further obligations or responsibilities with respect to such site, except in case hazardous materials that can be traced to the period of District ownership of the building are subsequently found, in which case the District shall be responsible for reasonable cleanup, remediation, and abatement costs.

 Section 7. Termination of this Agreement by District. Upon written notice to the City, the District may unilaterally terminate this Agreement for any reason and at any time prior to payment by the City to the District of the $425,000 amount as provided in Section 3 herein and thereupon all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be rescinded, null and void.

 Section 8. Water Supply Contract. This agreement shall not alter or amend that certain City of Seattle Full Requirements Contract for the Supply of Water to Cedar River Water and Sewer District executed May 23, 2001 by the District and June 14, 2001 by the City, except for the first line of the chart of Exhibit II thereof which identifies the existing Fairwood Pump Station as a service location. Upon commencement of operation of the new pump station identified herein, such first line of Exhibit II shall be amended and replaced with the following information:

 Meter service

 Station Pipeline Meter Min. Hyd. Max.

 Location No. Segment No. Size Gradient Flow

 FWPL4 197 31 10 490 2,000

 Section 9. Indemnity. The District agrees to defend, save harmless and indemnify the City from and against any and all claims or demands for injury or death to persons and damage to property arising out of the construction or operation and maintenance of the new pump station by the District, except as may be caused by the acts and neglect of the City, its agents, or employees. The City agrees to defend, save harmless and indemnify the District from and against any and all claims for injury or death to persons and for damage to the new pump station as may be caused by the acts and neglect of the City, its agents, or employees.

 Section 10. Miscellaneous. This agreement represents the entire agreement between the parties hereto concerning the subject matter. This agreement may only be amended in a writing duly executed and approved by the parties hereto. This agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington and in the event of a dispute between the parties, jurisdiction and venue shall lie in the King County Superior Court for the State of Washington.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City has caused this agreement to be executed by its Director of Seattle Public Utilities pursuant to Ordinance ________ and the District has executed this agreement by the President of its Board of Commissioners pursuant to Resolution No. ______. This agreement will become effective on the date signed by the last signatory.

 By: _________________________________ ________

 Charles Terwillegar, President and Commissioner Date

 Cedar River Water & Sewer District,

 Board of Commissioners

 By: __________________________________ ________

 Chuck Clarke, Director Date

 Seattle Public Utilities

 Attachments:

 1) Easement Agreement (Exhibit A)

 2) Parcel Diagram (Exhibit B)

 6

 Attachment 1 to SPU Cedar River W&SD Ord

 ATTACHMENT A

 Modified 3 24 06

 Legal Description:

 PARCEL A

 A strip of land 75 feet in width, located within the west 85 feet of the east 142 feet of that portion of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 27, Township 23 North, Range 5 East, W. M., lying adjacent to and southerly of the 66 foot wide Lake Youngs Bypass right of way of the Cedar River Pipeline System, as said right of way was conveyed by the Northwestern Improvement Company to the City of Seattle by deed recorded in Volume 305 of Deeds, page 293 Records of King County, Washington

 PARCEL B

 A strip of land 75 feet in width, located within the west 27 feet of the east 57 feet of that portion of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 27, Township 23 North, Range 5 East, W. M., lying adjacent to and southerly of the 66 foot wide Lake Youngs Bypass right of way of the Cedar River Pipeline System, as said right of way was conveyed by the Northwestern Improvement Company to the City of Seattle by deed recorded in Volume 305 of Deeds, page 293 Records of King County, Washington

 PARCEL C

 The west 112 feet of the east 142 feet of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 27, Township 23 North, Range 5 East, W. M., lying within the 66 foot wide Lake Youngs Bypass right of way of the Cedar River Pipeline System, as said right of way was conveyed by the Northwestern Improvement Company to the City of Seattle by deed recorded in Volume 305 of Deeds, page 293 Records of King County, Washington

 Attachment A to Exhibit A to Attachment 1 to SPU Cedar River W&SD Ord

 EXHIBIT A

 Recording Requested By And

 When Recorded Mail To:

 Seattle Public Utilities

 Real Estate Services

 700 5th Ave, Suite 4900

 PO Box 34018

 Seattle WA 98124-4018

 Reference #s of Documents Released or Assigned: none

 Grantor: CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington

 Grantee: CEDAR RIVER WATER AND SEWER DISTRICT, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington

 Legal Description (abbreviated): Pt. of the SW 1/4 of the NW 1/4 of Sec. 27, T. 23 N., R. 5 E. W.M.

 Pt. of 272305-9020

 Tax Parcel ID #:

 CITY #820612

 EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 THIS EASEMENT AGREEMENT (the "Easement Agreement") is made as of this _____ day of _______________, 2006 by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and through Seattle Public Utilities ("City" or "Grantor") and CEDAR RIVER WATER AND SEWER DISTRICT, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("Grantee") for and in consideration of ten dollars ($10.00) and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged. City hereby conveys and grants to Grantee a nonexclusive easement in, on, over and across Parcels A, B and C, as legally described in Attachment A and depicted in Attachment B (collectively, the "Easement Area"), both attached hereto and made part of this Easement Agreement by this reference, for the purpose of construction, operation, maintenance and reconstruction of a pump station and related appurtenances and improvements, including a water main and drainage in Parcels A and B (collectively, the "Facilities"), together with the right of ingress and egress across Parcel C to the Facilities by Grantee, its officials, employees, agents, licensees, contractors and consultants. The easement herein granted is subject to the City of Seattle ordinances and regulations and to the following terms, stipulations and conditions:

 SPECIAL TERMS and CONDITIONS

 1. This Easement Agreement and all of Grantee's rights hereunder shall terminate on the earlier of January 1, 2062 or the date on which (i) Grantee has ceased to use the Easement Area for a period of three (3) years or (ii) Grantee is in default of its obligations hereunder, has not commenced a cure within thirty (30) days of City's notice of such default, and has not proceeded with diligence to cure such default; provided, however, if that certain City of Seattle Full Requirements Contract for the Supply of Water executed May 23, 2001 by Grantee and June 14, 2001 by Grantor is extended or renewed, or if Grantee's supply of water from Grantor is continued through another contract with the City, Grantee shall have the right to extend the term of this Easement Agreement for the term of such extension, renewal or other contract. No termination of this Easement Agreement shall release Grantee or City from any liability or obligation (including without limitation Grantee's indemnification obligations hereunder with respect to any matter occurring prior to such termination. Upon termination of this Easement Agreement, Grantee shall decommission its Facilities pursuant to applicable local, state, and federal laws and regulations. The Grantee agrees to leave the Easement Area in a safe, orderly, fit and sanitary condition after construction and after termination of this Easement Agreement.

 2. Grantee understands and agrees that this Easement Agreement grants rights, including the right of ingress to and egress from the Facilities across Parcel C, to Grantee, its officials, employees, agents, licensees, contractors and consultants, but not to members of the general public.

 3. Grantee shall not bring or allow to be brought onto Parcel C of the Easement Area any vehicle with a live load that exceeds the American Association of Highway and Transportation Officials HS20-44 Standard Truck Loading, without prior written consent of the City. 1-inch thick steel plating shall be required for construction equipment or vehicles passing over or occupying Parcel C which have per axel weight in excess of 32,000 pounds and 16,000 pounds per wheel. In each case of such crossing or occupancy, Grantee shall notify the City 48 hours in advance by contacting the City's officers at Lake Youngs.

 4. With respect to Parcel C:

 A. Grantee and City both intend to use the existing access road off 140th Ave NE. Grantee and City shall jointly maintain that road in a safe and passable condition at all times, and shall take such measures as may be necessary to abate dust from traffic using the road. Except for regular wear and tear, each party shall restore and repair within 24 hours' notice by the other any damage to the access road arising from its activities.

 B. At its sole cost, Grantee may pave and maintain an access road in Parcel C south of the south edge of the existing access road for access to Grantee's Facilities, provided that Grantee shall not change the grade within Parcel C by more than 6 inches without prior written approval by City.

 C. City and Grantee each may temporarily close the access road in Parcel C for its operational needs; provided, that the party desiring to close the road shall notify the other in advance of any such work, except when an emergency exists. City will endeavor to provide substitute access to the Easement Area, if requested by the Grantee, in the event the access road is closed for a period longer than 10 days by City.

 5. Grantee understands and agrees that, except for fences and gates, no above ground structures shall be erected or placed within Parcel B or Parcel C. In Parcel B, Grantee may locate an underground water main to connect the pump station on Parcel A to Grantee's water main located within King County's easement right of way for 140th Avenue SE; and an underground power vault may be installed within the west 15 feet of Parcel C.

 6. At its sole cost, Grantee shall install, operate, and maintain drainage and detention facilities within Parcel A of the Easement Area as required by applicable storm water regulations to serve the Grantee's Facilities.

 7. If necessary to protect its facilities, City reserves the right to stop work or require modification of the method of construction if Grantee deviates from the construction plans approved by City for the Facilities, including any future modification thereof.

 8. City shall not be liable or responsible for any damage to or restoration of the Grantee's pump station, access road, pipelines, power line or other appurtenances or any other portion of the Easement Area that may be caused or necessitated by, or result from any use or occupancy of the Easement Area except as caused by City, its employees, contractors, invitees or agents.

 9. Grantee understands that the City has previously granted a permit to Puget Sound Energy ("PSE") across Parcel B for the installation, operation and maintenance for poles and power lines, including the right to control vegetation that could pose a hazard to the PSE facilities. Grantee acknowledges PSE's rights and agrees that Grantee shall not interfere with PSE rights in the exercise of PSE's rights hereunder. Grantee also agrees to cooperate with PSE and the City in the exercise of each party's rights with respect to Parcel B.

 GENERAL TERMS and CONDITIONS

 1. In addition to rights previously granted in Parcel B, City retains, in its ownership of the underlying fee, the right to grant or deny permission to use or occupy Parcels C and B of the Easement Area to other parties for any purpose, including without limitation use by non-City utility agencies; provided that such use or occupancy shall not unreasonably or permanently conflict with the purposes herein granted; and provided that such non-City utility agencies shall be required to restore the Easement Area to the same condition as it was prior to any disturbance of the surface. City may grant rights to use Parcel A, but only with Grantee's prior written consent, which may be withheld only if Grantee reasonably determines that the proposed use would compromise the security or operation of its Facilities located on Parcel A.

 2. Grantee shall acquire no right or interest in the Easement Area, or to the occupancy of the same, or any part thereof, other than for the period of time herein specified and only for the purpose herein described and pursuant to conditions and restrictions herein stated.

 3. Grantee's use of Parcels B and C of the Easement Area shall in no way interfere with the present or future use thereof by City, provided that any raising, lowering, other adjustment or relocation of Grantee's Facilities that may be required by the alteration or installation of City's existing or future pipelines or other improvements shall be performed promptly by Grantee at City's expense, unless otherwise agreed between the City and the Grantee. This Easement Agreement is intended to convey limited use and rights only. None of the rights granted to Grantee shall affect City's jurisdiction of, or its power to perform work within the Easement Area.

 4. Any permission granted for use or occupancy of the Easement Area is subject to all rules, regulations and laws governing the construction, operation and maintenance of such use, and shall not be construed to replace or to be used in lieu of any permit or licenses which may be required, granted or supervised by any agency or subdivision of government.

 5. Grantee has not relied on the City for assessing site conditions or determining the suitability of the site conditions to accommodate Grantee's construction activities.

 6. Grantee shall be responsible for the design, construction, maintenance and safety of all the Grantee's Facilities within the Easement Area, which shall be at no cost or expense to City except as provided for in executed written agreements between Grantee and the City.

 7. Grantee is responsible for limiting the use of the Easement Area to those approved in this Easement Agreement. All work to be prosecuted with diligence, and with due respect to all property, contracts, persons, rights and the interests and convenience of the public.

 8. Grantee shall not install or modify a cathodic protection system on its Facilities without the prior written approval of the City. Grantee shall provide, at its own expense, appropriate corrosion control measures to protect the City's water pipelines or other facilities from stray electrical current caused by Grantee's Facilities or cathodic protection installations. If such corrosion or electrolytic action should occur, the repair of any such damage, and any investigation required to locate and determine the extent thereof, shall be performed by the City or its designee at the sole cost and expense of the Grantee. It is the Grantee's responsibility to provide, at its own expense, appropriate corrosion control measures to protect the Grantee's Facilities from stray electrical current caused by the City's facilities or cathodic protection installations. The Grantee, at its own expense, shall join with the City in cooperative testing for stray current interference.

 9. Any alterations, moving or adjusting of the City's water pipelines and appurtenances in the Easement Area required by the construction, placement, operation, replacement or maintenance of the Grantee's Facilities shall be performed by the City at the sole cost and expense of the Grantee, unless otherwise agreed between the City and the Grantee.

 10. Any and all damage or injury done to the Easement Area, City's facilities, or facilities of others caused by Grantee or its agents and contractors during the construction, placement, operation or maintenance of the Grantee's Facilities, must be repaired to the City's or other facility owner's satisfaction, within 10 days of the completion of the work, at the sole cost and expense of the Grantee. If Grantee has not corrected, or made an acceptable agreement with City to correct any condition caused by Grantee that City determines as unacceptable within ten (10) days of notification by City, City may perform such work, and all reasonable costs incurred shall be billed to Grantee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, City may act immediately for conditions which pose a threat to public health, safety or the environment. Grantee agrees to pay such bills in a timely manner.

 11. A. City warrants that it has no knowledge of there being any contamination, as defined herein, of the Easement Area prior to commencement of Grantee's use of it. All Grantee's operations or activities on or occupancy of the Easement Area, including without limitation, any use or occupancy of the Easement Area by any official, employee, agent, representative, licensee, consultant, contractor, licensee, visitor or invitee of Grantee, shall comply with all Environmental Laws (as defined in section 11.B), including those governing, or in any way relating to, any Hazardous Substance (as defined in section 11.C). If City's property becomes contaminated as a result of actions hereunder by Grantee, its officials, employees, agents, consultants, contractors, representatives, licensees, invitees, or guests, Grantee shall clean up and remediate such contamination as necessary to bring the property in compliance with Environmental Laws. If Grantee does not so act in a prudent and prompt manner, City reserves the right, but not the obligation, to act in place of Grantee and to take such action as City deems necessary to ensure compliance or to mitigate the violation. All costs and expenses incurred by City in connection with any such actions shall become immediately due and payable by Grantee upon City's presentation of an invoice therefor.

 B. For the purposes of this Easement Agreement, the term "Environmental Law(s)" means any local, state or federal law, regulation, ordinance, order or other source of law, now or hereafter in effect relating to the protection of human health or the environment including, but not limited to: the Federal Clean Air Act; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act; the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986; the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended by the Solid and Hazardous Waste Amendments of 1984; the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act; the Federal Emergency Planning and Right-to-Know Act of 1986; the Federal Hazardous Materials Transportation Control Act of 1980; the Federal Water Act of 1977; the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act; the Federal Waste Management Recovery and Recycling  Act; the Washington Hazardous Waste Management Act; the Washington Hazardous Waste Fees Act; Washington Model Toxics Control Act; the Washington Nuclear Energy and Radiation Act; the Washington Radioactive Waste Storage and Transportation Act; the Washington Underground Petroleum Storage Tanks Act; and any regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time.

 C. For purposes of this Easement Agreement, the term "Hazardous Substance(s)" means any and all dangerous, hazardous or toxic substances, materials, wastes, pollutants or contaminants regulated under or subject to any Environmental Laws, including but not limited to those substances, materials and wastes listed in the United States Department of Transportation Hazardous Materials Table (49 C.F.R. section172.101) or by the United States Environmental Protection Agency as hazardous substances (40 C.F.R. pt. 302 and amendments thereto) or in the Washington Hazardous Waste Management Act (Ch. 70.105D RCW) or the Washington Model Toxics Control Act (Chs. 70.105D RCW 82.21 RCW), petroleum products and their derivatives, and such other substances, materials and wastes as become regulated or subject to cleanup authority under any Environmental Law.

 12. Grantee shall indemnify City as follows:

 A. Grantee shall release, defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City of Seattle, its officials, employees, agents, licensees, contractors, consultants, invitees and representatives (collectively, the "Indemnitees") from and against any and all claims, liens, demands, actions, costs, losses, expenses, harm, damages, and liability of any kind or character asserted or arising from, on account of, or in connection with (i) Grantee's exercise of its rights or obligations under this Easement Agreement, (ii) the acts or omissions of Grantee and its officials, employees, agents, consultants, contractors, representatives, licensees, invitees, or guests in or upon the Easement Area or (iii) any damage to or failure of Grantee's Facilities resulting in any damage or injury to any person or property.

 B. Grantee shall release, indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Indemnitees from and against all claims, actions, regulatory demands, judgements, liens, damages, harm, penalties, fines, costs, expenses, liabilities or losses (including, without limitation, clean up or remedial costs, injuries to third persons, sums paid in settlement of claims, attorneys' fees, consultant fees, and expert fees) which are imposed on, paid by, or asserted against the Indemnitees in connection with any violation of Environmental Law by Grantee, its officials, employees, agents, licensees, contractors, consultants, invitees or representatives.

 C. As between the parties and solely for the purpose of effectuating the indemnities contained in subsections A and B of this section 12, Grantee expressly waives any immunity, defense or protection that may be granted to it under the Washington State Industrial Insurance Act, Revised Code of Washington Title 51 or any other industrial insurance, workers' compensation or similar laws of the State of Washington. This section shall not be interpreted or construed as a waiver of Grantee's right to assert any such immunity, defense or protection directly against any of its own employees or such employee's estate or other representatives. This section 12.C has been mutually negotiated by the parties.

 Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall require Grantee to indemnify and hold harmless City to the extent of the negligence of City, its officials, employees, agents, consultants, contractors, representatives, invitees or licensees and City shall indemnify and defend District fromany any such acts or omissions.

 13. Grantee shall not assign its rights or obligations hereunder except with the prior written consent of City, which consent shall not unreasonably be denied. Subject to the preceding sentence, the rights and obligations of City and Grantee shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon their respective successors and assigns.

 14. In the event of conflict between the legal descriptions and sketches attached hereto as Exhibits A and B respectively, the legal descriptions shall control.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, City and Grantee have executed this Easement Agreement as of the date first above written.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE CEDAR RIVER WATER AND

 Seattle Public Utilities SEWER DISTRICT

 By: By:

 Chuck Clarke, Director Charles Terwillegar, President and Commissioner

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that CHUCK CLARKE is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he signed this instrument, on oath stated that he is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the DIRECTOR of SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITIES, of the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, to be the free an voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Notary (print name)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at

 My Appointment expires

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that CHARLES TERWILLEGAR is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the PRESIDENT and COMMISSIONER of, CEDAR RIVER WATER AND SEWER DISTRICT, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Notary (print name)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at

 My Appointment expires

 Exhibit A to Attachment 1 to SPU Cedar River W&SD Ord

 PAGE 7

 AMENDMENT 1

 Amendment No. 1 to Agreement for Relocating Cedar River Pump Station

 This Amendment No. 1 (Amendment) to Agreement for Relocating Cedar River Pump Station dated May 21, 2006 (Agreement) is entered into this ____ day of __________, 2006, by and between the City of Seattle (City) and the Cedar River Water and Sewer District (District), for the purposes of amending Section 2 and adding a new Section 11 to the Agreement.

 Section 2 of the Agreement is hereby amended and restated as follows (changes in bold):

 Section 2. Review of Construction Plans; Construction. The District will be responsible for the design and permitting of all facilities. The District shall design the new pump station in accordance with sound municipal utility standards and the provisions of the Easement Agreement. The City's review and approval of the District's design and construction documents shall be conducted within 20 business days of receipt and limited to the pump station suction line and wholesale meter installation, the relocation of the Control Works perimeter road, site drainage to the extent it affects the rest of the City property, and modifications and additions to the access road off 140th Ave SE. The District shall advertise for construction of the new pump station and the associated site work, only after receipt of written approval by the City of the project elements expressly identified above herein. The District will let and administer the contract for all the work. The District will use reasonable efforts to complete the pump station before June 30, 2008. The City shall grant reasonable extensions in the event of unforeseen delays. If the new pump station has not commenced operation by July 1, 2008, District shall pay to City the pumping costs incurred by City in continuing the current mode of water supply operations to District. This obligation shall terminate when the new pump station commences operation.

 The following Section is hereby added to the Agreement:

 Section 11. Release and Hold Harmless. The District, on behalf of itself, its agents, assigns, predecessors and successors, hereby completely and irrevocably releases, covenants not to sue, and forever discharges any and all actions, claims or damages it has asserted, or could have asserted, against the City, any and all of the City's predecessors and successors, and each and every of the City's officials (both elected and non-elected), officers, directors, superintendants, agents, employees, assigns and insurers, whether the actions, claims or damages be known or unknown, contingent or fixed, and whether or not matured, which actions, claims or damages are on account of, related to, or in any way growing out of, any damage to the District's Fairwood Pump Station. Such claims include, but are not limited to, Claim Number C77072, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit A.

 The extent of any damages sustained by the District is unknown. The District hereby acknowledges and assumes all risks, chance or hazard that the said damages may be or become permanent, progressive, greater or more extensive than is now known, anticipated or expected. The District specifically understands that all known and unknown damages and injuries, including the risk of latent bodily injuries, are covered by this Section. The District understands that this Section is a full and final release of all claims of every nature and kind whatsoever arising out of the aforementioned damage, and is intended to forever eliminate any further or additional claims of whatever nature arising therefrom against the City of Seattle, or any persons and/or entities described in this Section.

 This Section is intended to, and the District warrants that it will, dispose of all liability arising out of the claims being released hereunder between the persons and/or entities being released by the District and any other person or entity that might now or in the future have a claim as a result of the acts or conduct of the persons and/or entities being released or the alleged injury to the District.

 All Sections of this Agreement and the Easement Agreement remain in effect notwithstanding this release. If this Agreement terminates for any reason prior to payment by the City pursuant to Section 3, then this release shall be null and void.

 CEDAR RIVER WATER AND SEWER DISTRICT

 By: _____________________________________________________

 Charles Terwillegar, President and Commissioner

 Board of Commissions

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: ______________________________________________________

 Chuck Clarke, Director

 Seattle Public Utilities

 3

 1

 Amendment 1 to Attachment 1 to SPU Cedar River W&SD Ord

 ATTACHMENT 2

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF EASEMENT AREA

 Modified 3 24 06

 Legal Description:

 PARCEL A

 A strip of land 75 feet in width, located within the west 85 feet of the east 142 feet of that portion of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 27, Township 23 North, Range 5 East, W. M., lying adjacent to and southerly of the 66 foot wide Lake Youngs Bypass right of way of the Cedar River Pipeline System, as said right of way was conveyed by the Northwestern Improvement Company to the City of Seattle by deed recorded in Volume 305 of Deeds, page 293 Records of King County, Washington

 PARCEL B

 A strip of land 75 feet in width, located within the west 27 feet of the east 57 feet of that portion of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 27, Township 23 North, Range 5 East, W. M., lying adjacent to and southerly of the 66 foot wide Lake Youngs Bypass right of way of the Cedar River Pipeline System, as said right of way was conveyed by the Northwestern Improvement Company to the City of Seattle by deed recorded in Volume 305 of Deeds, page 293 Records of King County, Washington

 PARCEL C

 The west 112 feet of the east 142 feet of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 27, Township 23 North, Range 5 East, W. M., lying within the 66 foot wide Lake Youngs Bypass right of way of the Cedar River Pipeline System, as said right of way was conveyed by the Northwestern Improvement Company to the City of Seattle by deed recorded in Volume 305 of Deeds, page 293 Records of King County, Washington

 Attachment 2 to SPU Cedar River W&SD Ord

```
