

********

**Council Bill Number: 115771**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122297**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Planning and Development; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Chapter 22.900B, General Provisions; Chapter 22.900C, Fees for Land Use and Zoning Review; Chapter 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; Chapter 22.900E, Fees for Certificates and Registrations; Chapter 22.900F, Compliance and Other Inspections; and Chapter 22.900G, Fees Collected for Other Departments.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 20, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 22, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 22, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 30, 2006
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** FEES, DEPARTMENT-OF-PLANNING-AND-DEVELOPMENT, PERMITS, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS , LAND-USE-PERMITS, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS

**Fiscal Note:**115771

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122297](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122297.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Planning and Development; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Chapter 22.900B, General Provisions; Chapter 22.900C, Fees for Land Use and Zoning Review; Chapter 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; Chapter 22.900E, Fees for Certificates and Registrations; Chapter 22.900F, Compliance and Other Inspections; and Chapter 22.900G, Fees Collected for Other Departments.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Effective January 1, 2007, Subsection 22.900A.040 C of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900A.040 Administration and enforcement.

 ***

 C. The Director is authorized to collect fees listed in the preceding subsection or other fee related legislation for the Seattle Department of Transportation, the Seattle Fire Department, the Seattle-King County Department of Health, the Department of Neighborhoods, or Seattle Public Utilities, and to transfer those funds to them.

 ***

 Section 2. Effective January 1, 2007, Subsection 22.900A.050 B of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900A.050 Transition.

 ***

 B. Other Fees.

 Fees for other applications shall be set according to the permit fee legislation in effect at the time the ~~permit~~review is ~~issued~~performed unless one of the following occurs:

 1. The permit is issued within twelve (12) months of the start of the initial review; or

 2. If longer than twelve months, the Director determines that there was reasonable and continuous progress on the completion of permit requirements.

 If either Item 1 or 2 occurs, the application shall be subject to the permit fee legislation in effect at the time the application was received by the Department.

 Section 3. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900B.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900B.010 Base fee and hourly rate.

 A. The DPD base fee shall be charged as specified in this subtitle and shall be ~~One Hundred Fifty-Five Dollars (~~$155.00~~)~~.

 B. Any services provided by the Department for which an hourly charge is assessed shall be charged at a rate specified in this subtitle.

 The hourly rate for land use review is ~~Two Hundred Fifty Dollars (~~$250.00~~)~~. The rate for all other hourly fees is ~~One Hundred Fifty-Five Dollars (~~$155.00~~)~~ per hour except where a different hourly rate is specified in this subtitle. Where "DPD hourly rate" is specified in this subtitle, the rate is ~~One Hundred Fifty-Five Dollars (~~ $155.00~~)~~ per hour.

 C. Where an hourly rate is specified, overtime shall be charged at that same rate. Where no hourly rate is specified, overtime shall be charged at ~~One Hundred Fifty-Five Dollars (~~$155.00~~)~~ per hour. All overtime shall require approval by the Director. The minimum fee for each overtime request shall be one hour, with minimum increments of one-quarter hour, in addition to other permit fees established by this subtitle.

 Section 4. Effective January 1, 2007, Subsection 22.900B.020 D of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900B.020 Miscellaneous and special fees.

 ***

 D. Address change. The fee to correct the address on an application or, if applicable, on an issued permit is ~~Forty Dollars ($40.00)~~$42.50. When an address change is requested which is unrelated to an application for a permit or for an issued permit, a fee of one (1) times the base fee shall be assessed.

 ***

 Section 5. Effective January 1, 2007, Subsection 22.900B.060 B of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900B.060 Revisions and additions to applications.

 ***

 B. The Department may assess a fee in addition to fees already charged for the original permit if the applicant makes an amendment to an existing unexpired or reestablished permit. The applicable fees will be assessed for all work necessary to process the amendment, including the Seattle Department of Transportation, the Seattle Fire Department, Seattle-King County Department of Health, the Department of Neighborhoods or Seattle Public Utilities review associated with the submitted amendment.

 Section 6. Effective from January 1, 2007, Chapter 22.900C of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 Chapter 22.900C-Fees for Land Use Review

 22.900C.010 Land use fees.

 A. Land Use Review Fees. The land use review fee for Master Use Permits, Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, environmentally critical area approvals and other miscellaneous reviews, research and services shall be charged according to Table C-1 unless otherwise specified.

 B. Fee Components of Land Use Review Fees. Land use review fees include a minimum land use review fee and may include an hourly fee as specified in Table C-1. The minimum land use review fee covers the number of review hours specified in Table C-1. Only~~~~one minimum review fee shall be charged. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate specified in the table.

 C. Time of Payment.

 1. Pre-application Conference Fee. The fee for land use pre- application conference specified in Table C-1 shall be paid prior to the conference.

 2. Minimum Land Use Review Fee. The minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 shall be paid at application submittal. For projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, the Director may require an additional deposit to be made at application submittal and periodic progress payments to be made during the application review process.

 3. The following fees and amounts are due at the times specified below:

 a. All outstanding land use fees shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision or recommendation on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances are due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision or recommendation is required, fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 b. For Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, the fee due to date plus an estimated charge for future work up to and through final Council or Hearing Examiner action shall be paid at the time the recommendation of the Director is available for public review and before it is forwarded for final action. After final Council or Hearing Examiner action, the actual charges and estimated fee paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable upon demand, and prior to issuance of the permit.

 c. For early design guidance projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, all outstanding fees shall be paid upon application for the master use permit. Any hours paid by the minimum land use review fee but not spent at the time of application for the master use permit shall be credited toward land use review of the master use permit application.

 D. Additional Review. In addition to the fees set in Table C-1, review time required on a project prior to, or in lieu of, an application will be charged hourly as determined by the Director.

 E. Correction Penalty Fee. After written notice to the applicant, a penalty fee of $300.00 may be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of response from the applicant.

 Table C-1 - LAND USE FEES

 A. MASTER USE PERMIT, ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS, CITY COUNCIL and HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS

 Type of Land Use Minimum Fee Hourly Fee Review Hours Covered by Minimum Fee Review

 For Items 1-~~16~~ $2,500 $250 10-- General 14, unless 24--Low Income Housing1 otherwise noted

 1. Administrative conditional uses (ACUs) ACUs for community centers, child care centers, adult care centers, private schools, religious facilities and public and private libraries in single family and multi-family zones shall be charged a minimum fee of $1,620 for the first 20 hours. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate of $250 per hour. This exception applies when the application is for an ACU only, or an ACU combined only with a variance application.

 2. Design review, except as provided in Item 17~~9~~

 3. Environmental reviews (SEPA), including projects with more than one addressed site a. A 40 hour deposit is required for DSs and EISs; a 10-hour deposit is required for EIS addenda and SEIS b. A flat fee of $430 shall be assessed by DPD for Determinations of Non-significance (DNSs) and Mitigated Determinations of Non-significance (MDNSs) for projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located within a special review or landmark district; no hourly fees shall be assessed for these types of approvals unless DPD is the lead agency

 4. Environmentally critical areas (ECA)

~~a. Exemption review- See Section 22.900D.145~~

~~b. Exception and wetland alteration exception~~

~~c~~a. ~~Yard reduction~~Environmentally Critical Areas variance 2

~~d~~b. ~~Buffer reductions and restoration exceptions~~ ECA Exception

~~e~~c. ~~Short plat cluster housing and ACU to recover development potential~~Environmentally Critical Areas Administrative Conditional Use

~~5~~~~General development plan~~

~~6~~ Plan shoreline permit -- See Council concept approvals 5.

~~7~~ Shoreline permits 6.

 a. Substantial development permits

 b. Variances 2 and conditional uses

 c. Revisions (not due to required conditions)-See Item ~~41~~39 of this table

~~8~~ Short subdivisions 3 7.

~~9~~ Special exceptions 8.

~~10. ~~Temporary use permit for more than 4 weeks~~~~

~~11~~ Variances 29. Variances for community centers, child care centers, adult care centers, private schools, religious facilities and public and private libraries in single family and multi-family zones shall be charged a minimum fee of $1,620 for the first 20 hours. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate of $250 per hour. This exception applies when the application is for a variance only, or a~~n~~ variance combined only with an ACU application.

~~12~~ Concept approvals including, but not limited to planned community/ residential development, 10. public projects, City facilities, plan shoreline developments, other general development plans~~)~~

~~13~~ Council conditional uses 11.

~~14~~ Full subdivisions 4 12.

~~15~~ Major Institution-40 hour deposit is required for Master Plans 13.

~~16~~ Zoning map changes and rezones 14.

 B. MISCELLANEOUS REVIEWS, RESEARCH, AND OTHER SERVICES

 Type of Land Use Review Minimum Hourly Review Hours Covered by Minimum Fee Land Use Land Use Review Review Fee Fee

~~17~~ Concurrency Reserved 15.

~~18~~ Curb cuts as a separate 16. component

 a. Single-family residential $63 each None None

 b. Other than single-family $125 None None residential each

~~19~~ Design Review for Tree 17. Protection 5

 a. Design review required by SMC $1,000 $250 per 10 25.11.070 or 25.11.080 to hour protect exceptional tree when no other land use reviews are required

 b. Design review elected by $0 $250 per 10 applicant for tree protection hour

~~20~~ Early design guidance $1,500 $250 6 18.

~~21~~ Environmental review sign 6 $370 None None 19.

~~22~~ Establishing use for the record $500 $250 2 20.

~~23~~ Intake appointments for land use $155 21. reviews; fee is charged for each occurrence

~~24~~ Interpretations 7 22.

 a. Interpretations $1,500 $250 6

 b. Interpretations requested $2,000 $250 8 after publication of Director's report

 c. Major Institution Master Plan $500 $250 2

~~25~~ Letters for detailed zoning $1,000 $250 4 23. analysis or permit research

~~26~~~~Lot boundary adjustment $1,250 $250 5 24.~~Lot Boundary Adjustment, Sidewalk Cafe, Temporary Use > 4 weeks

~~27~~ Major Institution - review of $1,500 $250 6 25. annual plan per year

~~28~~ Major phased development permit $500 $250 2 26. - minor amendment

~~29~~ Neighborhood planning Reserved 27.

~~30~~ Noise survey review and variance See Table D-2 and Section 22.900F.020 28.

~~31~~ Notice. All notice is charged 29. based upon type for each occurrence. 8

 a. Land use information bulletin $165 (GMR notice)

 b. Posting large sign or $95 placards

 c. Mailed notice $155

 d. Landslide prone notice $155

 e. DJC decision publication $160

 f. Neighborhood newspaper $160 decision publication

 g. Public meeting room rental $50

~~32~~ Open space remainder lots and $1,000 $250 4 30. surplus state property

~~33~~ Pre-application conference 9 ~~$100~~ $250 1 31. $250

~~34~~ Public benefit feature review $500 $250 2 32.

~~35~~ Records research by the Public $110 $110 1 33. Resource Center

~~36~~ Rebuild Letters 34.

 a. With research $110

 b. Without research $35

~~37~~ Renewals including shoreline $500 $250 2 35. renewals

~~38~~ Revisions other than shoreline $250 $250 1 36. revisions

~~39~~ School use and school $2,500 $250 10 37. development advisory committee reviews

~~40~~ Shoreline exemptions $155 $155 1 38.

~~41~~ Shoreline permit revisions not $500 $250 2 39. due to required conditions

~~42.~~~~Sidewalk cafes~~~~$1,250~~~~$250~~~~5~~

~~43~~ Special accommodation $500 $250 2 40.

~~44~~ Structural building overhangs $500 $250 2 41. and areaways as a separate component

~~45~~~~Vegetation removal 10~~$500$250242. Tree and VegetationRestoration Review in ECA aboveminimum threshold where SEPA isnot required other than for therestoration

~~a. Class A~~~~$500~~~~$250~~~~2~~

~~b. Class B~~~~$250~~~~$250~~~~1~~

~~c. Class C~~~~$125~~~~$250~~~~0.5~~

43.Recording Fees, for LBA,$110Short Subdivision

44.Street Improvement Exceptions $500$2502 on a Land Use permit

 Notes to Table C-1:

 1. For purposes of these land use fees, low-income housing is housing that both (1) satisfies the definition of "low-income housing" in SMC 23.84.024; and (2) where at least fifty percent of the total gross floor area of each structure on the site is committed to low-income housing use for at least 20 years.

 2. The single variance fee shall be applicable whether the project requires one or multiple variances.

 3. Includes short subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

 4. Includes full subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

 5. This fee applies when design review is initiated only for tree protection and the application has no other review under Items 1-1~~6~~4.

 6. The minimum fee is applied to the cost to fabricate, install and remove the environmental review sign. If the sign is removed or defaced before the final City decision, the applicant will be responsible for paying the vendor contracted with the City to repair or replace the sign.

 7. The fees for interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20, 25.22, and 25.24 shall be collected by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods.

 8. Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project.

 9. This fee shall be applied towards the permit application fee if an application for a permit is made within 6 months of the date of the pre-application conference and if the project is identified by address at the time of the pre-application conference. The pre- application conference fee covers a one hour conference. Additional pre-application review time will be charged at the hourly rate. See also Section 22.900C.010.E.

~~10. The three classes are defined by Director's Rule 3-94.~~

 F. Refunds.

 1. Nonrefundable Fees. Fees for preapplication conferences and environmental signs are not refundable.

 2. Calculating Refunds for Land Use Fees. The amount of land use review fee that may be refunded is calculated as follows.

 a. For refunds requested before a required notice is complete, the amount eligible for refund is ~~Seventy-Five (~~75~~)~~ percent of the minimum land use review fee plus ~~One Hundred (~~100~~)~~ percent of the hourly deposit, if any, paid by the applicant.

 b. For refunds requested after notice is complete and for applications for which notice is not required, the amount eligible for refund is the number of hours of review time multiplied by ~~Two Hundred Fifty Dollars (~~$250.00, subtracted from the amount paid by the applicant. The amount refunded shall not exceed ~~Seventy-Five (~~75~~)~~ percent of the minimum land use review fee.

 Section 7. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900D.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.010 Development permit fees.

 A. General.

 The development fee shall cover the application, review and inspection process associated with new construction, additions, alterations, and repairs to existing buildings and establishment of use. The development fee shall consist of a permit fee and, where plans are reviewed, a separate plan review fee. The permit fee and plan review fee shall be determined based on valuation, except as provided below.

 B. Time of Payment of Fees.

 Fees collected at the time of application will be based on Department estimates of the total fees due at the time of permit issuance. The final Department fees will be recalculated during review, and any additional amount due shall be collected prior to the issuance of the permit, approval, denial, decision or recommendation, provided that hourly fees may be collected earlier, as described in Section 22.900B.010 D. Any fee in excess of the final calculated fee shall be refunded pursuant to Section 22.900B.050 and 22.900D.010 K.

 If, during the initial review, the previously-collected fee is determined to be less than ~~Ninety (~~90~~)~~ percent of the estimated fee, the review work subsequent to the initial review will not proceed until the discrepancy is paid to the Department.

 1. Amount Due Prior to Application. Fees for building preapplication conference shall be paid prior to the conference. See 22.900D.010 I for building preapplication conference fees.

 2. Amounts Due at Time of Application. The following amounts are due at the time of application:

 a. Applications for building and/or mechanical permits without plan review shall pay a fee for subject-to-field inspection (STFI) permits equal to the permit fee specified in Table D-2.

 b. Applications for building and/or mechanical permits with plan review shall pay the plan review fee plus one-half the permit fee as specified in Table D-2.

 c. For other applications, the minimum fee shall be collected at the time of application.

 C. Determination of Value.

 1. The Director shall determine the value of construction for which the permit is issued (the estimated current value of all labor and materials, whether actually paid or not, as well as all finish work, painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, elevators, fire- extinguishing systems, automatic sprinkler systems, other mechanical systems, retaining walls, rockeries and any other permanent work or permanent equipment, but not including furnishings). The building valuation data from the International Code Council and other valuation criteria approved by the Director will be used to determine the value of construction.

 2. Dish or Panel Antennae. The fee for processing applications for installation of a dish or panel antenna shall be charged on the value of the foundation and supports constructed for the installation. The value of the dish or panel antenna shall not be included in the determination of value.

 3. The development fee for parks and playgrounds shall be based on the project value, including the value of improvements for structures incidental to the park or playground such as retaining walls, rockeries and restrooms, but shall not include the value of playground equipment

 4. The valuation shall be based on the highest type of construction to which a proposed structure most nearly conforms, as determined by the Director.

 D. Phased Permits.

 1. When a new building project is proposed to be built in phases and the Director determines that separate development permits may be issued for portions of the project, the development fee for initial permits shall be based on the estimated value of the work under that permit according to Table D-2, except excavating permits shall be based on Section 22.900D.145. The fee for the final permit shall be the fee based on the total value of the new building project minus the sum of the fees for the initial permits, with no credit for an excavation permit fee.

 2. In addition to the fee specified in 22.900.010 D 1 above, where an applicant requests division of an already-submitted permit application ~~with a value of Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000.00) or less into separate applications, a fee of one times the Base Fee shall be charged for each separate application (including the original application which results from the division). Where the application has a value of more than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000.00) the additional fee shall be two times the base fee for each application.)~~a fee shall be charged for each separate application (including the original application which results from the division) as specified in Table D-2.

E. Calculation of Development Fees.

 The development fee for a permit shall be calculated as described in this section. Table D-1 establishes the development fee index for value-based development fees. Except as specified in Section 22.900D.010 F below, Table D-2 establishes the permit fee and plan review fee, calculated as a percentage of the development fee index where determined by value. If two or more buildings are allowed under one permit, they shall be assessed fees as separate buildings under Table D-2. The individual fees shall then be added to determine the total development fee for the permit.

 Table D-1 - CALCULATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT FEE INDEX

 Total Valuation Development Fee Index

 $0.00 to $150.00 for the first $1,000.00 or fraction thereof $1,000.00

 $1,001.00 to $150.00 for the first $1,000.00 plus $1.25 for each $50,000.00 additional $100.00 or fraction thereof

 $50,001.00 to $762.50 for the first $50,000.00 plus $1.00 for each $100,000.00 additional $100.00 or fraction thereof

 $100,001.00 to $1,262.50 for the first $100,000.00 plus $4.75 for $250,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $250,001.00 to $1,975.00 for the first $250,000.00 plus $4.50 for $500,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $500,001.00 to $3,100.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $4.25 for $750,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $750,001.00 to $4,162.50 for the first $750,000.00 plus $4.00 for $1,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $1,000,001.00 to $5,162.50 for first $1,000,000.00 plus $3.75 for $2,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $2,000,001.00 to $8,912.50 for first $2,000,000.00 plus $3.50 for $3,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $3,000,001.00 to $12,412.50 for first $3,000,000.00 plus $3.25 for $4,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $4,000,001.00 to $15,662.50 for first $4,000,000.00 plus $3.00 for $5,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $5,000,001.00 to $18,662.50 for the first $5,000,000.00 plus $2.25 $50,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $50,000,001.00 to $119,912.50 for the first $50,000,000.00 plus $1.75 $100,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 $100,000,001.00 $207,412.50 for the first $100,000,000.00 plus $1.25 to for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof $200,000,000.00

 $200,000,001.00 $332,412.50 for the first $200,000,000.00 plus $0.75 and up for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof

 Table D-2 - CALCULATION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES DETERMINED BY VALUE

 Percent of Development Fee Index (DFI) Calculated from Project Value as Specified in Table D-11

 Type of Development Permit Fee Plan Review Fee

 1. Building, with or without 100% of DFI 100% of DFI mechanical, with or without use2,3

 2. STFI (Subject to field 100% of DFI none inspection - building and/or mechanical without plan review)

 3. Reserved Reserved Reserved

 4. Mechanical permit separate 100% of DFI 100% of DFI from building permit3 (see also Section 22.900D.090)

 5. Blanket permit review fees:

 a. Initial tenant alterations $2.05 per 100 $2.40 per 100 within 3 years of first tenant square feet1 square feet1 permit within a building where the area of work is more than 50,000 square feet

 b. Initial tenant alterations 100% of DFI 40% of DFI after 3 years of first tenant permit, and other tenant alterations

 6. Initial tenant alterations 25% of DFI based 25% of DFI based on within 18 months of first tenant on new building new building value permit (nonblanket permit initial value of shell and of shell and core tenant improvements to shell and core core)4

 7. Standard plans:

 a. Establishment of standard plan, 100% of DFI 100% of DFI including temporary structures. (For swimming pools, see Item 15 below)

 b. Establishment of already 100% of DFI None permitted plan as standard plan

 c. Subsequent reviews of standard 100% of DFI 40% of DFI plan, other than temporary structures

 d. Subsequent reviews of standard See Item 16 below See Item 16 below plans for temporary structures

 8. Factory-built housing and Base Fee x 1; base Base Fee x 1 commercial structures fee x 1 for each module up to 10 modules for multistory multifamily structures

 Special Development Fees

 Type of Development Permit Fee Plan Review Fee

 9. Establishing use for the record:

 a. Applications with no Base Fee x 1.5 None construction

 b. Applications with construction 100% of DFI 100% of DFI

 10. Noise survey reviews None DPD hourly rate; 30-minute minimum

 11. Parking facilities

 a. Outside a building See Sec. 22.900D.060

 b. Within or on a building See Sec. 22.900D.010 C

 12. Renewal fees

 a. Development permits and DPD hourly rate DPD hourly rate separate mechanical permits where original plans will be changed

 b. Development permits other than Base fee x 1.5 separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans

 c. Separate mechanical where no Base fee x 1 change will be made to original plans

 13. Single-family seismic Base fee x 1 None retrofit

 14. Special inspection Base fee x 1

 15. Swimming pools5

 a. Unenclosed pools accessory to Base fee x 4 Group R-3 occupancy

 b. Unenclosed pools accessory to Base fee x 6 occupancies other than Group R-3

 c. Principal use unenclosed pools Base fee x 6

 d. Future construction of an Base fee x 1 unenclosed swimming pool

 e. Initial approval of standard Base fee x 5 plan for swimming pool accessory to Group R-3 occupancy

 f. Subsequent review of Base fee x 1.5 application based on approved swimming pool standard plan

 16. Temporary structures, such as Base fee x 2 per commercial coaches; renewal of structure permits for temporary structures6

 17. Temporary tents, off-site Base fee x 2 plus construction offices and similar $500 refundable facilities deposit per site7

 18. Temporary use permits

 a. For 4 weeks or less8 Base fee x 1.5

 b. For more than 4 weeks8 Base fee x 2

19. Phased Permits

a. Value . Base fee x 1b. Value >$5,000,000 in valueBase fee x 2

20. ECA Small Project Waiver NoneDPD hourly rate on a building permit

21. Street ImprovementBase fee x 2DPD hourly rate;Exceptions on a building permit +{2 hour minimum

 Notes to Table D-2:

 1. The minimum permit fee or plan review fee for value-based fees is $150.00.

 2. The minimum fee for accessory dwelling units is ~~$300.00~~$150.00 for Permit fee and $150.00 for Plan Review fee.

 3. When there is no separate mechanical permit, the value of mechanical equipment included in the building permit application shall be included in the project value for the building permit.

 4. This fee is applicable only to those initial tenants that reflect the use and occupancy established in the shell and core permit. The value used shall be the new construction value used in calculating value for the core and shell permit.

 5. When a swimming pool is located within an enclosed building and is included in the building plans for that building, a separate fee shall not be charged for the swimming pool. The swimming pool area will be considered as floor area of the principal occupancy of the building.

 6. This fee shall not apply to any on-site, temporary construction office where a valid building permit is in force.

 7. All costs to the City for site cleanup shall be deducted from the deposit before the deposit is refunded.

 8. Master use permit fees for such temporary uses shall be charged according to Table C-1.

 F. Blanket Permits.

 1. The application fee for a blanket permit to cover initial nonstructural tenant alterations within the first three years of the first tenant alteration permit shall be charged at the rate of ~~Four Dollars and Forty-Five Cents (~~$4.45 ~~(~~ per ~~One Hundred (~~100~~)~~ square feet of space to be improved within the life of the permit. A deposit based on the estimated value of the work to be completed during the life of the permit shall be collected at the time of application. As individual tenant spaces are reviewed, the amount of the fee equivalent to the floor space examined shall be deducted from the deposit per Table D-2.

 2. The application fee for a blanket permit to cover nonstructural tenant alterations in previously-occupied space, or to cover initial nonstructural tenant alterations after three years of the first tenant alteration permit, is ~~One Hundred Fifty (~~$150.00~~)~~. A deposit based on the estimated value of the proposed work within ~~Eighteen (~~18~~)~~ months shall be collected at the time of application. As individual tenant spaces are reviewed, the fee for the work to be done shall be calculated according to Table D-2 and deducted from the deposit.

 3. When the estimated blanket fee deposit is used up in less time than the life of the permit and work remains to be done, an additional deposit shall be paid based on the estimated floor area remaining to be improved during the remaining life of the permit. When a portion of the deposit is unused at the end of the life of the permit and work remains to be done, credit for the balance of the deposit may be transferred from the expiring permit to a new blanket permit. To minimize additional accounting costs associated with blanket permits, where more than ~~T~~two ~~(2)~~ deposits are made during the life of the blanket permit, the minimum amount of each subsequent deposit shall be ~~Two Thousand Dollars (~~$2,000.00~~)~~.

 G. Revisions to Issued Permits.

 Fees for revisions to issued permits shall be charged according to standards promulgated by the Director that approximate the additional cost of reviewing the revisions. A nonrefundable fee of one times the Base Fee shall be paid at the time the revisions are submitted.

 H. Certificate of Occupancy. The issuance of a certificate of occupancy for existing buildings, either where no certificate of occupancy has previously been issued or where a change of occupancy is requested, requires a building permit. When there is no construction valuation (there is no work which would require a building permit), the minimum building permit fee shall be assessed. In addition to the minimum building permit fee, where records research, plan examination or inspection is required, charges shall be assessed at the DPD hourly rate. Where work is being done as authorized by a permit, the permanent certificate of occupancy fee is not assessed in addition to the building permit fee. The fee for a temporary certificate of occupancy shall be charged at the rate of one-half the Base Fee. The fee for the duplication of a certificate of occupancy is ~~Twenty-Six Dollars ($26.00)~~$27.50 unless records research, plan examination or inspection is required, in which case charges shall be assessed at the DPD hourly rate.

 I. Building Preapplication Conferences.

 1. Required Building Preapplication Conferences. When there is a requirement for a preapplication or predesign conference, such as buildings subject to the Seattle Building Code special provisions for atriums (Section 404), or highrise buildings (Section 403), ~~Thirty-Five (~~35~~)~~ percent of the estimated plan review fee for the structure shall be charged and paid as specified in Section 22.900D.010 B, and applied toward the development permit fee. (See Table C-1 for land use preapplication conference fees.)

 2. Other Building Preapplication Conferences. When a preapplication conference is requested by the applicant but is not required by Code, a fee equal to One and One-Half (1.5) times the base fee shall be paid no later than the time of the conference. Such fee is required for each meeting held on a project, and will be applied toward the future permit application fee provided:

 a. The project is identified by the proper address at the time of the preapplication conference; and

 b. The permit application is made within Six (6) months of the date of the preapplication conference.

 J. Correction Penalty Fee.

 After written notice to the applicant, a penalty fee of ~~Three Hundred Dollars (~~$300.00~~)~~ will be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of adequate response from the applicant.

 K. Refunds.

 1. Refunds of development permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-3. See also Section 22.900B.050.

 2. Refunds shall not be given for the following fees:

 a. Demolition permits;

 b. Renewal or reestablishment of permits; and

 c. Preapplication conferences.

 Table D-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FEES

 I. Application Filed, Permit Not Issued.

 Amount of Permit Fee Eligible Amount of Plan Review for Refund Based on 50% of Fee Eligible for Stage in Review Process Total Permit Fee Calculation1 Refund Based on 100% of Total Plan Review Fee Calculation

 A. Application filed, ~~40%~~20% 90% plans not routed

 B. Plans routed for ~~20%~~10% 75% initial review, review not completed

 C. Initial review 0% 60% completed, plans not approved

 D. Initial review 0% 50% completed, routed for first correction review, review of first corrections not completed

 E. Review of first 0% 40% corrections completed, plans not approved

 F. Plans routed for review 0% 30% of second corrections, but review not completed

 G. Review of second 0% 20% corrections completed, plans not approved

 H. Review of third 0% 15% corrections not completed

 I. Review of third 0% 10% corrections completed, plans not approved

 J. Application approved, 0% 0% permit not issued

 II. Permit Issued2

 Stage in Review Process Amount of Permit Fee Eligible Amount of Plan Review for Refund Based on 100% of Fee Eligible for Total Permit Fee Calculation Refund

 Permit issued, work not 25% 0% started

 Permit issued, work started 0% 0%

 Notes to Table D-3:

 1. Fifty percent of the estimated permit fee is paid at the time the application is submitted. The amount refunded before the permit is issued is a percentage of the fifty percent.

 2. After the permit is issued, the entire permit fee has been paid. Therefore, the amount to be refunded after issuance is based on 100 percent of the permit fee.

 L. Renewals.

 Fees for renewal of permits shall be charged according to Table D-2. When the fee for a new permit would be less than One and One-Half (1 1/2) times the base fee, then the fee to renew the permit shall be the same as for a new permit.

 M. Reestablishment.

 The following fee shall be charged for reestablishment of development permits:

 1. Three (3) times the base fee; plus

 2. If changes are made to the original plans, an additional fee shall be charged for inspection and/or plan examination at the DPD hourly rate.

 When the fee for a new permit would be less than Three (3) times the base fee, then the fee to reestablish the permit shall be the same as for a new permit.

 Section 8. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900D.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.090 Permit fees for mechanical equipment and systems, other than boilers and pressure vessels and refrigeration systems.

 A. Mechanical permit fees for the installation, replacement or major alteration of heating equipment, incinerators and other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances shall be charged as set in Table D-8. Fees shall be charged for each furnace when it is applied for without plans. No separate fee shall be charged for a furnace when it is included in plans for a mechanical air-moving system submitted for a mechanical permit.

 B. Mechanical permits are considered part of a building permit, with no additional fee, when mechanical plans are reviewed at the same time as structural and architectural plans for the same building project. The fees for a separate mechanical permit for installation, alteration or repair of mechanical air-moving systems, including ducts attached thereto, associated nonresidential heating and cooling equipment, and mechanical exhaust hoods, including ducts attached thereto, are charged per Table D-2. See Table D-12 for rates for burners installed in boilers.

 C. The fee to renew or reestablish a furnace permit is One-Half (1/2) the base fee.

 Table D-8 - PERMIT FEES FOR MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

 Type of Installation Fee

 Forced air, gravity-type, or floor furnace, gas $103.00 per unit or oil suspended heater, heat pump, recessed wall heater or floor-mounted space heater, wall furnace, circulating heater or woodstove/fireplace insert including ducts and burners attached thereto

 New gas or oil burners and newly installed used $103.00 per unit gas or oil burners1

 Appliance vents Class A, B, BW or L when $82.40 per unit installed separately

 Mechanical air-moving systems See Table D-2

 Appliances or equipment or other work not Hourly at the DPD hourly classed in other categories, or for which no rate. Minimum of one-half other fee is listed hour.

 Table D-9 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT FEES

 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

 Stage in Review Process Amount Eligible for Refund

Permit application file, 50%permit not issued

 Permit is issued; no work 25% started.

 Permit is issued; work 0% (No refund allowed) started.

 Section 9. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900D.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.100 Refrigeration equipment and systems.

 A. Fees for the installation, addition, repair, replacement and alteration of refrigeration equipment and systems shall be charged as set in Table D-10.

 B. Temporary installations of ~~Ten (~~10~~)~~ days' duration or less, made for the purposes of exhibition, display or demonstration shall be charged a fee of ~~Forty-Six Dollars and Thirty-Five Cents ($46.35~~~~)~~$49.00 for each installation.

 Table D-10 - REFRIGERATION PERMIT FEES1

 Type or Size of System/Equipment Fee

 Basic fee2 ~~$46.35~~$49.00

 Additional installation fee per

 compressor

 0-5 HP ~~$ 46.35~~$49.00

 6-25 HP ~~$ 92.70~~$99.00

 26-100 HP ~~$185.40~~$197.00

 101-500 HP ~~$247.20~~$263.00

 Over 500 HP ~~$298.70~~$318.00

 Repair and alteration (value of work)

 $0 - $1,000.00 ~~$46.35~~ $49.00

 $1,001.00 - $5,000.00 ~~$66.95~~$71.00

 $5,001.00 - $10,000.00 ~~$113.30~~$121.00

 Over $10,000.00 (($~~113.30~~$121.00 plus ~~$46.35~~$49.00/each $5,000.00 or fraction thereof of valuation above $10,000.00

 Notes to Table D-10:

 1. Where the application for permit shows cooling tonnage rather than horsepower, the fees of this table shall apply at a rate of one horsepower equals one ton of cooling capacity.

 2. The basic fee applies to new installations, repairs and alterations.

 C. Refunds. Refunds of refrigeration permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-11.

 Table D-11 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF REFRIGERATION FEES

 REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT

 Stage in Review Process Amount Eligible for Refund

Permit application file, permit50%not issued

 Permit is issued; no work started. 25%

 Permit is issued; work started 0% (No refund allowed)

 D. The fee to renew or reestablish a refrigeration permit is One-Half (1/2) the base fee.

 Section 10. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900D.110 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.110 New installations and alterations of boilers and pressure vessels.

 A. Fees for the installation of boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged as set in Table D-12. The fee for alteration or repair of boilers and pressure vessels when an inspection is required is a minimum fee of One-Half (1/2) times the base fee and a fee for inspection time beyond the first One-Half (1/2) hour at the DPD hourly rate.

 B. The fee to renew or reestablish a boiler permit is One-Half (1/2) the base fee.

 Table D-12 - INSTALLATION PERMIT FEES FOR BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS

 Type Of Installation Fee Installation

 Boilers Heated By Electric Power Combustion Input (in KW) Products Heating Surface (In Square Feet)

 0-250 0-200 ~~$169.95~~ $181.00

 250-500 201-400 ~~$252.35~~ $269.00

 500-750 401-600 ~~$339.90~~ $362.00

 750-1,000 601-800 ~~$489.25~~ $521.00

 1,000 Over 800 ~~$618.00~~ $658.00

 PressureVessels1 Length times diameter in square feet

 0-15 ~~$113.30~~ $121.00

 15-30 ~~$149.35~~ $159.00

 30-50 ~~$216.30~~ $230.00

 50-100 ~~$278.10~~ $296.00

 100 ~~$339.90~~ $362.00

 Burner2 0-12,500,000 ~~$169.95~~ $181.00 (each fuel) Btu/hr ~~$262.65~~ $ 280.00 (each fuel) Over 12,500,000 Btu/hr

 Automatic 0-12,500,000 ~~$169.95~~ $181.00 (each fuel) certification Btu/hr ~~$262.65~~ $280.00 (each fuel) Over 12,500,000 Btu/hr

 Monitoring System Per Boiler ~~$314.15~~ $334.00

 Notes to Table D-12:

 1. Rating size is the product of the ~~T~~two ~~2~~greatest dimensions of the vessel: diameter X overall length for the cylindrical vessels; maximum width X maximum length for rectangular vessels.

 2. When a burner is installed in conjunction with a boiler, a separate fee shall not be charged for the burner.

 Section 11. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900D.140 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.140 New installations and alterations of elevators and other conveyances.

 A. Permit fees for new installations and relocations of passenger or freight elevators, automobile parking elevators, escalators, moving walks, material lifts, dumbwaiters, lifts, private residence elevators and other conveyances shall be charged as set forth in Table D-13.

 B. The permit fee for alterations and repairs to existing elevators, escalators, lifts, moving walks, dumbwaiters, and other conveyances shall be charged on a valuation basis as set forth in Table D-13, provided that in no case shall the fee for alteration or repair exceed the fee if the same were a new installation.

 C. The fee for a temporary, ~~Sixty~~60-day operating permit is One (1) times the base fee.

 D. The fee to renew or reestablish an elevator permit is One-Half (1/2) the base fee.

 Table D-13 -PERMIT FEES FOR ELEVATORS AND OTHER CONVEYANCES1,2,3,4

 Type of Conveyance Fee

 New Installations and Relocations

 Hydraulic elevators ~~$442.90~~$472.00 plus (($~~38.65~~$41.00 per hoistway opening

 Cabled geared and gearless ~~$849.75~~$905.00 plus ~~$64.40~~$69.00 elevators per hoistway opening

 Residential hydraulic and cabled ~~$334.75~~$356.00 elevators

 Dumbwaiters, manual doors ~~$160.70~~$171.00 plus ~~$19.60~~$21.00 per hoistway opening

 Dumbwaiters, power doors ~~$160.70~~$171.00 plus ~~$45.30~~$48.00 per hoistway opening

 Escalators and moving walks ~~$1261.75~~$1,343.00 plus the following (width in inches + run in feet + vertical rise in feet) x ~~$3.85~~$4.10

 Accessibility lifts (vertical and ~~$257.50~~$274.00 inclined)

 Material lifts ~~$309.00~~$329.00

 Alterations and Repairs

 Accessibility lifts (vertical and ~~$128.75~~$137.00 plus ~~$19.60~~$21.00 inclined) for each $1,000 of construction value or fraction thereof

 Other elevators, escalators, walks, ~~$155.00~~$165.00 plus ~~$25.75~~$27.00 dumbwaiters and lifts for each $1,000 of construction value or fraction thereof

 Elevator cosmetic alterations only:

 Weight differential less than or ~~$155.00~~$165.00 plus ~~$25.75~~$27.00 equal to 5% for each $1,000.00 of construction value or fraction thereof, to a maximum fee of ~~$309.00~~$329.00

 Weight differential greater than 5% ~~$155.00~~$165.00 plus ~~$25.75~~$27.00 for each $1,000.00 of construction value or fraction thereof

 Alteration or replacement of a door ~~$185.40~~$197.00 per opening device

 Notes to Table D-13:

 1. Each separately-powered unit is considered a separate conveyance. Applications and permits shall be issued accordingly. (See Seattle Building Code Section 3006.1.)

 2. Installation fees include charges for electrical equipment installed in connection with any conveyance and such equipment shall not be subject to a separate electrical permit and fee.

 3. Each of these fees includes a nonrefundable portion in the amount of One (1) times the base fee.

 4. The fee for alteration and repair shall not exceed the fee for the same device if installed as new.

 Section 12. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900D.160 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.160 Sign, awning and canopy permit fees.

 A. Permanent signs. For permanent signs, a permit fee of ~~One Hundred Twenty-Three Dollars and Sixty Cents ($123.60)~~$132.00 shall be charged for the first ~~One Hundred (~~100~~)~~ square feet or less of the total display area of the sign plus an additional charge of ~~Ten Dollars and Thirty Cents ($10.30)~~$11.00 for each ~~Ten (~~ 10~~)~~ square feet or fraction thereof of total display area in excess of ~~One Hundred (~~100~~)~~ square feet. Each sign or group of signs for a single business entity installed simultaneously on a single structure shall be charged a separate permit fee per business entity. The addition of a sign or group of signs for One (1) business entity to the structure requires a separate permit.

 B. Sign Measurements. All signs erected or painted simultaneously for a single business entity, provided they are on a single structure, shall be measured together and assessed a fee as if a single sign. Directional ground signs between Five (5) and Seven (7) square feet may be measured together and assessed a fee as if a single sign.

 C. Sign Area. For the purpose of this section, sign area shall be measured in accordance with Section 23.86.004 of the Land Use Code.

 D. Wall Signs. The maximum fee for signs painted on or otherwise applied directly to the building wall without a frame or mechanical fasteners is ~~Four Hundred Seventy-One Dollars and Twenty-Five Cents ($471.25)~~$502.00.

 E. Awnings and Canopies. A separate permit fee is required for the installation of awnings and canopies. The fee assessed for the installation is based on the valuation of the awning or canopy and is ~~One Hundred (~~100~~)~~ percent of the development fee index as calculated according to Table D-1. This fee is separate from the fee for any sign on the awning or canopy.

 F. Signs on Awnings and Canopies. A permit fee separate from the awning permit fee is required for a sign installed or painted on an awning or canopy. Signs for separate business entities are assessed a separate fee whether or not on a separate awning or canopy. All signs for each business entity installed concurrently on an awning or canopy shall be measured to determine the total square footage and shall be assessed a fee as though One (1) sign. The subsequent addition of a sign or group of signs for One (1) business entity requires a separate permit.

 G. Time of Payment. Permit fees for signs, awnings and canopies shall be paid at the time of application.

 H. Renewal and Reestablishment. The fee to renew or reestablish a sign, awning or canopy permit is One-Half (1/2) the base fee.

 Section 13. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900E.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900E.010 Off-premises advertising sign (billboard) registration fees.

 A registration fee of ~~Sixty-One Dollars and Eighty Cents ($61.80)~~ $66.00 shall be charged initially to establish and annually to renew each face of an off- premises advertising sign (billboard). The renewal fees are due on or before July 1, 2002 and on July 1 of each subsequent year.

 Section 14. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900E.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900E.020 Boiler and pressure vessel certificates of operation.

 The fee for certificates of operation for boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged in accordance with Table E-1. Where the inspection is performed by the City, the certificate fee includes the certificate of operation, the inspection and One (1) reinspection, if necessary.

 Table E-1 - FEES FOR CERTIFICATES OF OPERATION FOR BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS

 Type of Reinspection and Certificate Fee1 Installation

 Boilers3 Heating By Heated By Combustion Electricity Products Electric Power Heating Surface Input (In KW) (In Square Feet)

 0-250 0-200 ~~$100.45~~ $107.00

 251-500 201-400 ~~$188.50~~ $201.00

 501-750 401-600 ~~$275.00~~ $293.00

 751-1,000 601-800 ~~$424.90~~ $452.00

 Over 1,000 Over 800 ~~$525.30~~ $559.00

 Controls and limit Automatic boilers Annual devices for (input) automatic boilers 0-12,500,000 Btu ~~$100.45~~ $107.00 (Charged in Over 12,500,000 ~~$125.15~~ $133.00 addition to those fees listed above)

 Monitoring systems Annual for automatic ~~$250.30~~ $266.00 boiler (Charged in addition to those fees listed above)

 Unfired pressure Rating Size Biennial vessels1,2,3 0-15 ~~$57.20~~ $61.00 16-30 ~~$100.45~~ $107.00 31-50 ~~$163.80~~ $174.00 51-100 ~~$213.25~~ $227.00 Over 100 ~~$313.65~~ $334.00

 Domestic water Biennial ~~$38.65~~$41.00 heaters located in Group A, E or I occupancy

 Notes to Table E-1:

 1. Fees for boiler and pressure vessels which are inspected by authorized insurance company inspectors are ~~Fifty (~~50~~)~~ percent of those set forth in Table E-1; provided, that the ~~Fifty (~~50~~)~~ percent rate shall not apply to the charges for controls and limit devices for automatic boilers specified in Table E-1, and further provided that no fee shall be less than the minimum.

 2. Rating size is the product of the Two (2) greatest dimensions of the vessel: diameter X overall length for the cylindrical vessels; maximum width X maximum length for rectangular vessels.

 3. Fees for low-pressure hot water supply boilers installed prior to January 1, 1989, consisting of tanks whose contents are heated by electric elements shall be charged at the same rates that apply to unfired vessels of the same size.

 Section 15. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900E.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900E.030 Fees for elevator certificates of inspection.

 A. Certificates of inspection for elevators will be issued upon acceptance inspection and for each subsequent annual reinspection after payment of the fee set in Table E-2.

 B. The fee for renewal of a certificate of inspection to operate any conveyance is as set in Table E-2.

 Table E-2 - FEES FOR ELEVATOR CERTIFICATES OF INSPECTION1

 Type of Conveyance Fee for Each Conveyance

 Hydraulic elevators ~~$141.65~~$151.00

 Cable elevators2, 3 ~~$193.15~~$206.00 plus ~~$14.45~~$16.00 for each hoistway opening in excess of two

 Sidewalk elevators ~~$128.75~~$137.00

 Hand-powered elevators ~~$128.75~~$137.00

 Dumbwaiters ~~$128.75~~$137.00

 Escalators and moving walks ~~$193.15~~$206.00

 Accessibility lifts (vertical and ~~$128.75~~$137.00 inclined)

 Material lifts ~~$128.75~~$137.00

 Fire emergency systems, Phase I or ~~$64.40~~$69.00 both Phase I and Phase II

 Notes to Table E-2:

 1. Each separately-powered unit is considered a separate conveyance. Separate applications and permits are required for each conveyance. (See Section 3006.1, Seattle Building Code.)

 2. Elevators having a continuous hoistway wall of ~~One Hundred (~~100~~)~~ feet or more without openings shall be charged a fee of ~~Three Hundred Fifteen Dollars and Twenty Cents (~~ $315.20~~)~~ plus ~~Fourteen Dollars and Forty-Five Cents (~~$14.45~~)~~ for each hoistway opening in excess of Two (2).

 3. The fee for roped hydraulic elevators is the same as cable elevators.

 Section 16. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900E.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900E.040 Refrigeration systems annual operating permit fee.

 The annual operating permit fee for any refrigeration system is calculated according to Table E-3. The fee for multiple systems on a single premises is based upon the total motor horsepower at the premises.

 Table E-3 - REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS ANNUAL OPERATING FEES

 Size of Equipment Fee

 0 - 50 HP ~~$91.20~~$97.00

 51 - 100 HP ~~$139.05~~$148.00

 Over 100 HP ~~$194.70~~$207.00

 Over 100 HP (Type 2 refrigerant) ~~$285.30~~$304.00

 Section 17. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900E.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900E.050 Boiler, refrigeration and gas piping licenses and examinations.

 Fees for boiler, refrigeration and gas piping examination and annual license fees, payable in advance, shall be charged as set in Table E-4.

 Table E-4 - FEES FOR BOILER, REFRIGERATION, AND GAS PIPING LICENSES AND EXAMINATIONS

 License Fees:1

 Refrigeration contractor

 Class A ~~$155.00~~$165.00

 Class B ~~$155.00~~$165.00

 Class C ~~$247.20~~$263.00

 Air-conditioning contractor ~~$155.00~~$165.00

 Refrigeration service shop ~~$69.55~~$74.00

 Journeyman refrigeration mechanic ~~$69.55~~$74.00

 Refrigeration service shop mechanic ~~$69.55~~$74.00

 Industrial refrigeration engineer ~~$69.55~~$74.00

 Refrigeration operating engineer ~~$69.55~~$74.00

 Steam engineers and boiler firemen (all ~~$69.55~~$74.00 grades)

 Boiler supervisor, all grades ~~$77.25~~$82.00

 Gas piping mechanic ~~$69.55~~$74.00

 Examination fees - all licenses ~~$30.90~~$33.00

 Note to Table E-4:

 1. When a license is issued that will expire in less than Six (6) months from the date of issuance, the fee is One-Half (1/2) the annual fee.

 Section 18. Effective January 1, 2007, Subsection 22.900E.060 C of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900E.060 Registration of special inspectors.

 ***

 C. The fee for renewal of a special inspector certificate of registration covering One (1) or more types of inspection for which the registrant has been qualified is ~~$38.65~~$41.00.

 ***

 Section 19. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900F.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900F.010 Monitoring vacant buildings.

 A. A quarterly reinspection fee shall be charged as set forth in Table F- 1 for reinspections of buildings closed pursuant to or in response to the requirements of the Housing and Building Maintenance Code. Building and premises shall be maintained per the standards of the Housing and Building Maintenance Code, Land Use Code, Solid Waste Code and Weeds and Vegetation Ordinance.

 Table F-1 - MONITORING VACANT BUILDINGS

 Condition of Premises Fee

 Building is closed to entry and premises are in ~~$169.95~~ compliance with applicable codes $181.00

 Building is closed to entry and premises are not in ~~$283.25~~ compliance with applicable codes $302.00

 Building is not closed to entry regardless of compliance ~~$339.90~~ with applicable codes $362.00

 B. The Department shall send a bill to the taxpayer and/or owner of record of each property inspected.

 Section 20. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900F.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900F.020 Noise fees.

 A. Certain construction and land use proposals require noise survey reviews. Project review shall be charged according to Table F-2. Any hourly fees owed shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision is required, hourly fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 B. Applications for noise variances shall be charged according to Table F-2, except for applications for temporary noise variances as components of a master filming permit issued pursuant to SMC Section 15.35.010 which shall be charged as part of the single fee for the master filming permit. In addition to the amounts specified in Table F-2, applicants shall reimburse the Department for actual costs associated with review of the application.

 The fee for renewal of noise variances is the same as for new applications.

 Fees for noise variances are not refundable.

 Table F-2 - NOISE FEES

 Type Permit Fee Project Review Fee

 Temporary noise variance ~~$155.00~~ None (No separate fee when issued $165.00 as part of a master filming permit)

 Economic/technical variance in ~~$103.00~~ DPD hourly rate, (2-hour residential zones $110.00 deposit)

 Economic/technical variance in ~~$257.50~~ DPD hourly rate, (2-hour commercial/industrial zones $274.00 deposit)

 Noise survey reviews See Table D-2 See Table D-2

 Section 21. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 22.900F.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900F.050 House barge licenses. The fee for a house barge license is ~~Three Hundred Forty Dollars ($340.00)~~$362.00. The fee to renew a house barge license is ~~One Hundred Seventy Dollars ($170.00)~~$181.00.

 Section 22. Effective January 1, 2007, Subsection 22.900G.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900G.030 Fees for review by the Seattle-King County Department of Health.

 A. Fees for fuel gas piping shall be collected by the Director of Public Health. The basic fee for gas piping installations is ~~Ninety-five Dollars ($95.00)~~$110.00 for one (1) outlet, and ~~Ten Dollars ($10.00)~~$12.00 for each additional outlet. A minimum of ~~Ninety-five Dollars ($95.00)~~$110.00 is nonrefundable.

 B. The fee shall not apply to the installation of any domestic hot-water heaters or any other domestic gas-fired appliance connected to a plumbing system whenever such appliance or heater is included in a plumbing installation for which a basic plumbing permit has been issued.

 C. A reinspection fee for fuel gas piping of ~~One Hundred Dollars ($100.00)~~$115.00 may be assessed for each inspection where such portion of work for which inspection is called for is not complete or when corrections called for are not made. This is not to be interpreted as requiring inspection fees the first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with the requirements of this Code, but as controlling the practice of calling for inspection or reinspection.

 Reinspection fees may be assessed when the permit is not properly posted on the work site, the work to be inspected is not under test, and for failure to make required corrections. To obtain a reinspection the applicant shall file an application therefore in writing upon a form furnished for that purpose, and pay the reinspection fee in accordance with this code. In instances in which reinspection fees have been assessed, no additional inspection of the work will be performed until the required fees have been paid.

 Section 23. The provisions of this ordinance and of Exhibit 1 are declared to be separate and severable. If one or more of the provisions of this ordinance or of Exhibit 1 shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, then such provision or provisions shall be null and void and severed from the rest of the ordinance or from Exhibit 1, and all other provisions shall remain valid and enforceable.

 Section 24. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 DPD/jsd/kf

 2007-2008 DPD Fee Ordinance

 10-24-06

 Version 11

 37

```
