

********

**Council Bill Number: 115792**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122313**
********

 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate changes proposed as part of the 2006 Comprehensive Plan annual amendment process.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 11, 2006
   
**Vote:** 6-3 (No: Drago, Rasmussen, Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 21, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 21, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 27, 2006
   
**Committee:** Urban Development and Planning
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** AMENDMENT, COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN, LOWER-QUEEN-ANNE, SOUTH-LAKE-UNION, NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, VIADUCTS,, CENTRAL-WATERFRONT, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, SHORELANDS, VIEWPOINTS, ANNEXATION, ROOSEVELT, FIRST-HILL, INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICT, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, PEDESTRIANS, STAIRWAYS, FERRIES

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 30860

**Fiscal Note:**115792

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122313](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122313.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate changes proposed as part of the 2006 Comprehensive Plan annual amendment process.

 WHEREAS, the City Council adopted procedures in Resolution 30261, as amended by Resolution 30412, for amending the Comprehensive Plan, consistent with the requirements for amendment prescribed by the Growth Management Act, RCW 36.70A; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Council Resolution 30412, a number of proposals for Plan amendments were submitted for Council consideration, both from within City government and from the public; and

 WHEREAS, on April 24, 2006, the City Council considered these proposed Comprehensive Plan amendments and adopted Council Resolution 30860, directing that City staff further review and analyze certain proposed amendments; and

 WHEREAS, these proposed amendments have been reviewed and analyzed by the Department of Planning and Development and considered by the Council; and

 WHEREAS, the City has provided for public participation in the development and review of these proposed amendments; and

 WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and considered the Executive's report and recommendations, public testimony made at the public hearing, and other pertinent material regarding the proposed amendments, and has proposed additional amendments; and

 WHEREAS, the Council finds that the amendments to be adopted are consistent with the Growth Management Act, and will protect and promote the health, safety, and welfare of the general public; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Seattle Comprehensive Plan, as last amended by Ordinance 121955, is amended as follows:

 A. Urban Village Figure 1, Urban Centers, Urban Villages, & Manufacturing/Industrial Centers, Urban Village Figure 4, Uptown Urban Center, and the Future Land Use Map are amended to include the triangle bounded by Aurora Avenue, Denny Way, and Broad Street within the Uptown Urban Center.

 B. The goals and policies of the South Lake Union Urban Center are replaced in their entirety by the goals and policies in Attachment 1 to this Ordinance. The Department of Planning and Development (DPD) shall work with the South Lake Union Friends & Neighbors Community Council and other stakeholders to:

 1. Identify strategies to accomplish the goals and policies in Attachment 1; and

 2. Prioritize goals, policies and strategies as part of the South Lake Union Neighborhood Plan Update.

 DPD is directed to develop and implement a work program to accomplish the above tasks (1 & 2 above) in the first quarter of 2007.

 C. In order to facilitate the replacement of State Route 99 (Alaskan Way Viaduct) , the following Land Use and Transportation Goals and Policies are amended or added:

 Land Use Goal 47 is amended as follows:

 Relocate or demolish transportation facilities that are functionally or aesthetically disruptive to the shoreline, such as the aerial portion of the Alaskan Way Viaduct on the Central Waterfront between King Street and Union Street.

 Land Use Policy 241 is amended as follows:

 Streets, highways, freeways and railroads should be located away from the shoreline in order to maximize the area of waterfront lots and minimize the area of upland lots. Streets, highways, freeways and railroads not needed for access to shoreline lots shall be discouraged in the Shoreline District. A replacement for the State Route 99 Viaduct (only for seawall reconstruction and either a tunnel with a surface roadway or a surface roadway) may be located in the Shoreline District because it represents a critical link in the transportation network.

 Land Use Policy 250 is amended as follows:

 Permit landfill on submerged land that does not create dry land where necessary for a water-dependent or water-related use, for the replacement of the State Route 99 Viaduct (only for seawall  reconstruction and either a tunnel with a surface roadway or a surface roadway),

for the installation of a bridge or utility line, or for wildlife or fisheries habitat mitigation or enhancement. Permit landfill that creates dry land only where necessary for the operation of a water-dependent or water-related use, for the replacement of the State Route 99 Viaduct (only for seawall reconstruction and either a tunnel with a surface roadway or a surface roadway), to repair pocket erosion, or for wildlife habitat mitigation or enhancement. Large amounts of dry land may be created in Lake Union only if specifically approved by the Council for a public park purpose.

 Land Use Policy 270 is amended as follows:

 The 35-foot height limit of the Shoreline Management Act shall be the standard for maximum height in the Seattle Shoreline District. Exceptions in the development standards of a shoreline environment may be made consistent with the Act and with the underlying zoning where:

 a. a greater height will not obstruct views of a substantial number of residences and the public interest will be served; and

 b. greater height is necessary for bridges or the operational needs of water dependent or water-related uses or manufacturing uses; or

 c. greater height is necessary to allow for the replacement of the State Route 99 Viaduct (only for seawall reconstruction and either a tunnel with a surface roadway or a surface roadway); or  d.

a reduced height is warranted because of the underlying residential zone; or

e. a reduced height is warranted because public views or the views of a substantial number of residences could be blocked.

 The following new shoreline transportation policy is added to the Land Use Element (C-4):

 To facilitate expeditious construction in an environmentally and fiscally responsible manner, standards for major state and regional transportation projects should be considered that will allow flexibility in construction staging, utility relocation, and construction-related mitigation and uses, provided that the projects result in no net loss of ecological function.

 The following new shoreline transportation policy is added to the Land Use Element (C-4):

 Prohibit aerial transportation structures over 35 feet high, such as bridges and viaducts, on the Central Waterfront in the Shoreline Environments between King Street and Union Street, except for aerial pedestrian walkways associated with Colman Dock, in order to facilitate the revitalization of downtown's waterfront, provide opportunities for public access to the Central Waterfront shoreline, and preserve views of Elliott Bay and the land forms beyond.

 D. Urban Village Figure 9, Potential Annexation Areas, is amended to add a map of North Highline as a Potential Annexation Area, as shown on Attachment 2.

 E. The goals and policies of the Roosevelt residential urban village are replaced in their entirety by the goals and policies in Attachment 3 to this Ordinance. The Department of Planning and Development (DPD) shall work with the Roosevelt Neighborhood to:

 1. Identify strategies to accomplish the goals and policies in Attachment 3; and

 2. Prioritize goals, policies and strategies as part of the Roosevelt Neighborhood Plan Update.

 DPD is directed to develop and implement a work program to accomplish the above tasks (1 & 2 above) in the first quarter of 2007.

 F. Delete First Hill neighborhood plan policy FH-P2 in its entirety, as follows:

~~Encourage the development of a "critical mass" of housing, transit, and shops near the proposed light rail station.~~

 G. Land Use Policy 36 in the Land Use Element is amended as follows to clarify where open space and required yards are recommended:

Outside of Urban Centers,~~U~~use requirements for ~~the provision of~~ onsite open space or required yards to help ensure that new development maintains existing patterns of landscaped front yards, to encourage permeable surfaces and vegetation, and to mitigate the cumulative effects of development. ~~Require that usable open space or recreation areas be provided as part of construction of dense office buildings and all residential buildings.~~

 H. The Future Land Use Map is amended to change the designation of the land bounded by S. Dearborn Street, Rainier Avenue S., S. Weller Street, and 12th Avenue S. currently shown as Industrial to Commercial/Mixed-Use, as shown on Attachment 4.

 I. The following new policy is added to the Land Use Element (A-1):

 Seek opportunities to incorporate incentive programs for development of housing affordable to lower-income households into legislative rezones or changes in development regulations that increase development potential. Consider development regulations that condition higher-density development on the provision of public benefits when such public benefits will help mitigate impacts of development attributable to increased development potential.

 J. Transportation Policy 33 is amended as follows to clarify policies for prioritization of pedestrian improvements:

 Accelerate the maintenance, development, and improvement of ~~existing~~ pedestrian facilities, including public stairways. Give special consideration to:

a. access to recommended school walking routes;

b. access to transit, public facilities, social services and community centers; and

c. access within and between urban villages for people with disabilities and special needs;

d. areas with a history of pedestrian / motor vehicle crashes and other safety problems; and  e. areas with high levels of growth.

 The Pedestrian Master Plan should identify a method for assessing and implementing pedestrian safety and access improvements in high growth areas.

 K. Transportation Policy T28 is amended to encourage expansion of water-borne transit service, and to split it into two policies as follows:

 Transportation Policy T28: Support efficient use of ferries to move passengers and goods to,~~and~~ from, and within Seattle. Explore route, funding and governance options for waterborne transit service, especially those that serve pedestrians.

 New Policy: In order to limit the expansion of automobile traffic by ferry,~~E~~encourage the Washington State Ferry System to expand its practice of giving loading and/or fare priority to certain vehicles, such as transit, carpools, vanpools, bicycles, and/or commercial vehicles, on particular routes, on certain days of the week, and/or at certain times of day. Encourage the Ferry System to integrate transit loading and unloading areas into ferry terminals, and to provide adequate bicycle capacity on ferries and adequate and secure bicycle parking at terminals.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020, except that Section 1.D shall take effect either as described above or when state Department of Ecology approval of said

 section is granted, whichever is later.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment 1: Goals and policies of the South Lake Union Neighborhood Plan Attachment 2: Potential North Highline Annexation Area Attachment 3: Goals and policies of the Roosevelt Neighborhood Plan Attachment 4: Rainier and Dearborn Future Land Use Map Amendment

 12/1/2006, Version #6 t

 Attachment 1 SOUTH LAKE UNION URBAN CENTER PROPOSED NEIGHBORHOOD PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

 NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER

 G1 A vital and eclectic neighborhood where people both live and work, where use of transit, walking and bicycling is encouraged, and where there are a range of housing choices, diverse businesses, arts, a lively and inviting street life and amenities to support and attract residents, employees and visitors.

 P1 Encourage the co-location of retail, community, arts and other pedestrian-oriented activities in key pedestrian nodes and corridors.

 P2 Promote diversity of building styles and support the diverse characters of neighborhood sub-areas.

 P3 Encourage public and private developers to consider existing neighborhood character when designing projects adjacent to parks and historical sites.

 P4 Work with the community to develop strategies to make the neighborhood safe for all community members.

 P5 Encourage designs of public spaces and private buildings that can accommodate the needs of people across a range of ages and abilities, allowing residents to age in place.

 G2 A neighborhood that recognizes its history as a maritime and industrial community and embraces its future as a growing urban center that provides for a wide range of uses.

 P6 Establish incentives to encourage preservation, reuse and rehabilitation of historically significant structures in the neighborhood; explore incentives to encourage the adaptive reuse of other older buildings in the neighborhood that provide a visual reminder of the past and promote diversity of character and building types.

 P7 Support existing organizations that provide for an eclectic and livable community, including arts and culture, human services, maritime and educational organizations.

 P8 Seek to maintain a diversity of uses in the neighborhood, including maritime, industrial and downtown-core service businesses traditionally occupying the neighborhood.

 G3 A neighborhood that serves as a regional center for innovative organizations and that supports a diverse and vibrant job base.

 P9 Support the growth of innovative industries in South Lake Union including biotechnology, information technology, environmental sciences and technology, and sustainable building.

 P10 Foster a collaborative and creative community through interaction among community members and different types of organizations in the community, including those engaged in arts and culture, human services and education, as well as neighborhood businesses and organizations.

 G4 A neighborhood where arts and culture thrive, with attractions for citywide audiences and a broad range of arts and cultural organizations.

 P11 Encourage characteristics that favor a sustainable arts and cultural presence, including affordable and adaptable venues for making, performing and displaying art that meet the diverse needs of artists and arts organizations.

 P12 Provide for a livable community by encouraging artistic activities that create a positive street presence.

 P13 Seek to incorporate the arts into the design of public projects and the use of public spaces.

 G5 A neighborhood that supports this and future generations by providing community-based historical, cultural, artistic and scientific learning and enrichment activities for children, residents, employees and visitors.

 P14 In order to support neighborhood families, encourage existing and new schools and childcare facilities in South Lake Union and adjacent neighborhoods.

 P15 Recognize the heritage of the neighborhood and the rich diversity of neighborhood businesses and organizations as opportunities for learning.

 P16 Encourage the development of higher education, apprenticeship and internship opportunities and adult learning offerings that build on the innovative climate of the community.

 TRANSPORTATION

 G6 A livable, walkable community that is well served by transit and easy to get around by foot, bike or transit.

 P17 Work with transit agencies to provide transit service to and through South Lake Union to meet growing demand and changing markets.

 P18 Promote a system of safe pedestrian and bicycle connections linking key activity areas and destinations, such as open spaces, schools and arts facilities.

 G7 A transportation system that provides safe, convenient access to businesses, residences, and other activities in the neighborhood.

 P19 Collaborate with businesses, developers, housing providers and transit providers to reduce demand for automobile trips by making transit and other alternative modes attractive choices for residents and commuters.

 P20 Develop flexible off-street parking requirements that provide parking adequate to a building's occupants and encourage the use of transit, walking, bicycling and other non-automotive modes.

 P21 Encourage the efficient use of on-street parking for neighborhood businesses, residents and attractions through innovative parking management and pricing strategies.

 G8 A well-connected neighborhood with bicycle, pedestrian, waterborne and vehicular access to adjacent neighborhoods.

 P22 Explore transportation improvements to link South Lake Union with its surrounding neighborhoods.

 P23 Seek to provide improved access to and connections across Aurora Avenue North that result in a more integrated and efficient transportation system for multiple transportation modes.

 G9 A neighborhood with principal arterials that move people and freight efficiently through the neighborhood, support local access, and provide circulation for all modes.

 P24 Create a street network that enhances local circulation and access for all modes of travel by balancing the need to move people and freight efficiently through the neighborhood with the need for increased accessibility and safety for pedestrians and bicyclists.

 P25 Encourage improvements to Mercer and Valley Streets that support development of South Lake Union Park, improve neighborhood circulation for all modes, and move people and freight efficiently through this corridor.

 PARKS AND OPEN SPACE

 G10 Parks and open spaces provide an obvious and inviting purpose, accessible to and meeting the needs of an increasingly diverse neighborhood as it grows and changes.

 P26 Support South Lake Union Park as a local and regional waterfront attraction that celebrates the area's natural history and maritime heritage.

 P27 Support Cascade Playground and related facilities as a community resource and model for sustainable parks development.

 P28 Support Denny Park's historic character while identifying opportunities to encourage more use of the park.

 P29 Consider a variety of tools, including regulatory measures and joint projects with public agencies and private organizations to support existing park and open space projects and to provide for new open spaces to support the growth of the neighborhood.

 P30 Encourage the acquisition and development of public or private spaces that provide for active play and recreation.

 P31 Use visual and physical connections between open spaces, adjacent streets and surrounding activities to stimulate positive social interactions.

 P32 Identify opportunities for alternatives to traditional open spaces, including green streets and recognition and use of Lake Union as recreation and open space.

 HOUSING

 G11 A wide range of housing types is integrated into the community, accommodating households that are diverse in their composition and income.

 P33 Provide incentives to encourage housing for people across a range of incomes in a variety of housing types, particularly in mixed-income buildings.

 P34 Encourage affordable housing units throughout the community through new construction and preservation of existing buildings.

 P35 Encourage both rental and ownership housing.

 P36 Promote housing, amenities, and services, including schools and childcare, community center, library programs and other public services that promote a healthy community and that will attract more families to move into the South Lake Union neighborhood.

 G12 Housing in South Lake Union is affordable for and attractive to workers in South Lake Union, to enable people to live near their jobs.

 P36 Encourage employers to develop and participate in strategies that allow employees to live near their work.

 P37 Allow housing and businesses throughout South Lake Union to provide opportunities for people to work and live in the neighborhood.

 P39 Identify locations within South Lake Union where housing could be particularly concentrated to create viable urban residential communities.

 P40 Promote the development of live-work housing, especially when designed to meet the special needs of groups like artists and their families.

 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

 G13 A neighborhood that acts as a model for sustainable redevelopment.

 P41 Encourage low-impact development and activities that can control consumption of resources, improve public health and safety, and provide for multiple environmental benefits.

 P42 Encourage careful stewardship of water quality in Lake Union, including strategies to improve the quality of water flowing into the lake.

 P43 Provide for a stable and reliable supply of electrical power to South Lake Union, which has facilities with unique load and service requirements, such as high-technology and biotechnology research laboratories.

 P44 Explore new sources of energy for heating and cooling, renewable energy, distributed co-generation, and energy conservation, at the building, block and neighborhood level.

 P45 Encourage building designs that allow for public view corridors through the neighborhood to Lake Union and the Space Needle and natural light at street level.

 P46 Seek to increase tree coverage, reintroduce native plant species into the neighborhood and provide for additional wildlife habitat appropriate to the urban environment.

 t

[Attachment 2 - Potential North Highline Annexation Area](/~ordpics/115792At2.gif)

 Attachment 3 ROOSEVELT PROPOSED NEIGHBORHOOD PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

 LAND USE GOALS

 R-LUG1: Foster development in a way that preserves single-family residentially zoned enclaves and provides appropriate transitions to more dense, or incompatible, uses

 R-LUG2: Promote the growth of the Roosevelt Urban Village in a manner that concentrates residential and business uses in the commercial core and near the light rail station, with less dense residential, mixed use and commercial development along the commercial arterials that extend from the core.

 R-LUG3: Promote the design of private development and public facilities that protects and enhances public views and vistas.

 LAND USE POLICIES

 R-LUP1: Support a zoning strategy that consolidates similar zoning into whole blocks in and near the urban core and light rail station, to result in more compatible development.

 R-LUP2: Support the infill development of commercial zoned properties that are vacant or underutilized.

 R-LUP3: Promote the development of new multifamily dwellings, in properly zoned areas, that will buffer single-family areas from the commercial core, freeway and commercial corridors.

 TRANSPORTATION GOALS

 R-TG1: Accommodate anticipated increases in transit, truck and automobile traffic on arterials.

 R-TG2: Balance the use of arterials for the movement of people and goods with parking needs.

 R-TG3: Minimize cut-through traffic on non-arterial streets.

 R-TG4: Respect the Olmsted legacy of Ravenna Boulevard as an element of the city's transportation and open space systems.

 R-TG5: Ensure that Roosevelt continues to be well integrated into the regional transportation infrastructure.

 TRANSPORTATION POLICIES

 R-TP1: Acknowledge that the existing built street environment must accommodate foreseeable traffic increases and provide interface with the light rail station.

 R-TP2: Promote sidewalk design on principal and minor arterials to encourage pedestrian use and improve pedestrian safety.

 PARKING GOALS

 R-TG6: Promote the preservation of on-street parking for residents and their guests on minor arterials without bus routes and local access streets.

 R-TG7: Promote the efficient use of on-street parking on principal and minor arterials.

 PARKING POLICIES

 R-TP3: Promote the equitable distribution of parking on commercial and residential access streets to provide a safe flow of traffic relative to traffic volume and optimize the amount of on-street parking.

 R-TP4: Prioritize parking in commercial areas for business customers.

 SAFETY GOALS

 R-TG8: Street design and traffic control on principal and minor arterials should provide for pedestrian safety and promote a healthy walking environment.

 SAFETY POLICIES

 R-TP5: Design traffic signals, crosswalks and sidewalks to improve pedestrian safety and encourage walking.

 R-TP6: Promote site planning that reduces conflicts between pedestrians and vehicles.

 LIGHT RAIL GOALS

 R-TG9: Promote and support the integration of the Sound Transit Light Rail Station into the transportation network of the Roosevelt Urban Village.

 LIGHT RAIL POLICIES

 R-TP7: Promote a surface transit routing scheme that provides convenient, effective and frequent access to the light rail station.

 R-TP8: Promote elements in the design of the light rail station that provide functional loading and unloading for vehicles, including surface transit.

 R-TP9: Promote improvements of pedestrian and bicycle facilities to ensure safe and convenient access to the light rail station.

 R-TP10: Protect on-street parking for residents and neighborhood commercial patrons from light rail users who commute to the station by automobile.

 HOUSING GOALS

 R-HG1: Protect and maintain the architectural heritage of Roosevelt's Craftsman, bungalow and Tudor style housing while embracing growth of well designed buildings of an appropriate scale.

 R-HG2: Create housing types that can provide housing opportunities for a wide range of residents and households with varying incomes and housing needs.

 R-HG3: Accommodate most of the expected residential growth by encouraging larger development in and around the Roosevelt Urban Village's light rail station and commercial core.

 HOUSING POLICIES

 R-HP1: Promote the preservation and maintenance of existing single- family homes in single-family zones and control impacts to homes on the edge of the single-family zones.

 R-HP2: Encourage an appropriate fit of scale and architectural character in all new developments.

 R-HP3: Encourage extended families and families with children to reside in Roosevelt.

 R-HP4: Encourage housing options for people with disabilities, senior citizens, and those with low or moderate-income levels.

 R-HP5: Create housing opportunities that allow Roosevelt residents to stay in the neighborhood through various life stages.

 R-HP6: Encourage mixed-use and larger multifamily structures in and immediately surrounding the transit and commercial core to accommodate increased density in our neighborhood.

 CAPITAL FACILITIES GOALS

 R-CFG1: As growth in the neighborhood occurs and density increases, provide public open spaces and indoor and outdoor community gathering places for neighborhood enjoyment.

 R-CFP2: Provide safe, well-maintained parks and open spaces with a variety of facilities that will promote positive activity.

 CAPITAL FACILITIES POLICIES

 R-CFP1: Protect the value of Roosevelt's public spaces by controlling shadow impacts from surrounding development, enhancing and maintaining the landscape and facilities, and preserving public views from these spaces of the Olympic Mountains and Mount Rainier, the downtown Seattle skyline, and other City Landmarks.

 R-CFP2: Promote increased use of existing public open spaces.

 R-CFG3: Provide open space to support higher density residential development in appropriately zoned areas, including public plazas and other urban amenities in the commercial core and at the light rail station.

 R-CFP4: Consider redevelopment of under-used or decommissioned properties or facilities as a way to increase the amount of parks and recreation facilities and open space in the neighborhood.

 R-CFP5: Promote the design and programming of existing open spaces and facilities for alternative activities and shared uses.

 R-CFP6: Provide trails and corridors that connect existing and new parks and open spaces, to create an open space network.

 UTILITIES GOALS

 R-UG1: Maintain and enhance access for Roosevelt residents and businesses to the broadest range of utility systems available within the city of Seattle.

 R-UG2: Help achieve overall City goals to reduce the use of energy and the production of non-recyclable waste and to increase the reuse of storm water and the recycling of solid waste.

 R-UG3: Reduce the visual impact of utilities in the Roosevelt neighborhood.

 UTILITIES POLICIES

 R-UP1: Promote Roosevelt as a neighborhood of high technology connectivity.

 R-UP2: Strive to ensure that all residents and business have equal access to public and private utilities and programs that reduce cost and waste.

 R-UP3: Encourage the participation by all Roosevelt residents and businesses in voluntary programs for yard waste reduction and recycling, rain water collection and reuse, solar connection to the City's electrical grid and other such programs as may be sponsored the City, private utilities or other public organizations.

 R-UP4: Promote the use of sustainable building products and energy/water conserving fixtures in all new construction.

 R-UP5: Encourage the screening of above ground utility facilities, such as electrical substations, with either landscaping or artistic treatments.

 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT GOALS

 R-EDG1: Promote the health of the Roosevelt neighborhood commercial core and foster a strong, vibrant, pedestrian-oriented neighborhood business district.

 R-EDG2: Take advantage of the location of the light rail station by promoting mixed-use development that includes both businesses and multifamily housing near the station to serve the diverse population of the Roosevelt neighborhood.

 R-EDG4: Recognize that Roosevelt's cultural resources, including schools, institutions, traditions, historic resources, and creative people, are important contributors to our neighborhood economy, as well as to the city.

 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

 R-EDP1: Support retention and growth of existing businesses, industries, and small firms within the Roosevelt Urban Village, and actively seek to attract new businesses appropriate to the neighborhood context and infrastructure.

 R-EDP2: Promote opportunities for business development related to users of the Roosevelt light rail station.

 R-EDP3: Encourage development of live/work arrangements within traditional commercial and office spaces, as a way to encourage small business owners to live in the neighborhood.

 R-EDP4: Strengthen ties with schools, institutions, arts and cultural entities, non-profits, and other organizations and recognize their contributions of economic diversity, living wage jobs and economic activity to the neighborhood.

 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT GOALS

 R-HDG1: Make Roosevelt a neighborhood that supports a variety of life styles and families of all sizes, where all can be involved in community and neighborhood life.

 R-HDG2: Create an environment for sustainable living, accessible health care, education, and housing within the Roosevelt community.

 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

 R-HDP1: Create opportunities that build connections through community service and volunteering.

 R-HDP2: Promote respect and appreciation for diversity in the Roosevelt Neighborhood and compassion for those in the neighborhood who are disadvantaged.

 R-HDP3: Promote public safety through active community involvement and good urban design.

 R-HDP4: Foster a family-friendly environment and activities that promote cross-generational participation and that increase youths' attachment to the community.

 R-HDP5: Support programs that provide assistance to disadvantaged individuals and families.

 ENVIRONMENT GOALS

 R-EG1: Maintain a healthy natural environment as the Roosevelt neighborhood accommodates growth.

 R-EG2: Maintain and enhance the legacy of environmental stewardship in the Roosevelt neighborhood.

 ENVIRONMENT POLICIES

 R-EP1: Protect and enhance the urban forest on public and private property to reduce storm runoff, absorb air pollutants, reduce noise, stabilize soil and provide habitat.

 R-EP2: Discourage the use of chemical products on lawns and gardens and for household use and discourage impervious ground surfaces to help protect the quality of Seattle's water bodies.

 R-EP2: Maintain and enhance environmental quality through the use of natural systems to reduce pollution and greenhouse gases in the air and to clean and control storm water runoff.

 R-EP3: Promote conservation of resources and energy, and use of sustainable building products through education, design review and community action.

 R-EP4: Strive to protect and retain exceptional trees and groups of trees that enhance Roosevelt's historical, cultural, environmental and aesthetic character.

 R-EP5: Promote the use of environmentally friendly modes of transportation and other ways of reducing greenhouse gases, such as alternative heating systems and reduced use of gasoline-powered devices.

 R-EP6: Promote site planning and building design that reduce energy use through natural lighting, natural ventilation and solar orientation.

 R-EP7: Promote street and other outdoor lighting fixtures that reduce light pollution, such as through the use of hoods and downward orientation.

 t

[Attachment 4 - Rainier and Dearborn Future Land Use Map Amendment ](/~ordpics/115792At4.gif)

```
