

********

**Council Bill Number: 115744**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122266**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing Seattle Public Utilities to execute a lease agreement with CB Property, LLC for office space in downtown Seattle.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 2, 2006
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Drago)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 10, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 10, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Central Building Lease

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 25, 2006
   
**Committee:** Environment, Emergency Management and Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, LEASES, OFFICE-FACILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**115744

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE authorizing Seattle Public Utilities to execute a lease agreement with CB Property, LLC for office space in downtown Seattle.

 WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities has reorganized to improve service delivery to customers, in part by increasing the purview of the Utility Service Team and the Call Center within the Customer Service Branch of the Seattle Public Utilities; and

 WHEREAS, organizational efficiencies will be gained by consolidating the previously decentralized staffs of the Utility Service Team and the Call Center; and

 WHEREAS, downtown City-owned facilities cannot accommodate such consolidation; and

 WHEREAS, after evaluating several options for office space in the vicinity of the City Hall and the Seattle Municipal Tower, Seattle Public Utilities determined the most cost-effective option is to lease office space in the Central Building for the Utility Service Team and to locate the Call Center in the space formerly occupied by the Utility Service Team; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Seattle Public Utilities is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, a lease agreement with CB Property, LLC, substantially in the form of Attachment 1 attached hereto, and providing for occupancy by the City of Seattle of a portion of the real property commonly known as the Central Building, 810 Third Avenue, Seattle, Washington.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance that is taken after passage of this ordinance but prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment 1: Lease between CB Property, LLC and Seattle Public Utilities August 24, 2006 version 4

 Attachment 1: Lease between CB Property, LLC and Seattle Public Utilities

 LEASE AGREEMENTPART A - SIGNATURE FORM

 PARTIES THIS LEASE AGREEMENT, dated for reference purposes ______ __, 2006, is made and entered into by and between CB Property, LLC, a Washington limited liability company (hereinafter referred to as the "Lessor"), and The City Of Seattle acting through and by Seattle Public Utilities (hereinafter referred to as the "Lessee"), a municipal corporation of the State of Washington..

 PREMISES The Lessor hereby leases to the Lessee that certain real property comprising approximately 16,209 rentable square feet of space which consists of approximately 12,959 rentable square feet on the sixth floor (designated "Suite 600") and 3,250 rentable square feet on the third floor (designated "Suite 300") as crosshatched on the attached Exhibit A (the "Premises"), of the Central Building ("the Building"), which is commonly known as 810 Third Avenue, Seattle, Washington, and legally described as follows:

 That certain real property known as The Central Building, 810 Third Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98104, County of King, State of Washington.

 Lots 1, 4, 5, and 8, in Block 26 of Addition to the Town of Seattle, as laid out on the Claims of C.D. Boren and A.A. Denny and H. L.Yesler (COMMONLY KNOWN AS C.D. BOREN'S ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE), as per plat recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, on page 25, records of King County, Washington; EXCEPT the Southwesterly 9 feet condemned for 3rd Avenue.

 Situated in the County of King, State of Washington.

 The Central Building, of which the Premises form a part, and the real property on which it sits are collectively referred to herein as the "Property".

 PURPOSES The Premises shall be used as administrative offices for the City of Seattle and for no other purpose without Lessor's prior written consent. Said consent shall not be unreasonably withheld; however, any other use must be consistent and compatible with tenants in a class B office building.

 TERM The Term of this lease shall be ten (10) years, commencing on November 1, 2006, and expiring on October 31, 2016.

 BASE RENT In consideration of this Lease Agreement and the Lessor's performance of all covenants and agreements contained herein, Lessee shall pay to the Lessor as the monthly base rental for said Premises the indicated monthly amount for each of the following respective Lease Years during the Term of this Lease Agreement.

 Period Monthly Amount Lease Year 1 $29,716.50 Lease Year 2 $31,067.25 Lease Year 3 $32,418.00 Lease Year 4 $33,768.75 Lease Year 5 $35,119.50 Lease Year 6 $36,470.25 Lease Year 7 $37,821.00 Lease Year 8 $39,171.75 Lease Year 9 $40,522.50 Lease Year 10 $41,873.25

 All rent is due within ten (10) calendar days after the first day of each month. As used in this section, one Lease Year is measured from November 1st through October 31st.

 SECURITY No Security Deposit is required under this Lease Agreement. DEPOSIT

 UTILITIES AND Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B, Section 3, hereof, OTHER SERVICES Lessee shall pay for the following utilities and other services: Telephone, computer, and data cabling installation and service charges.

 PROPERTY Definition of Terms: In addition to Base Rent, Lessee shall TAXES pay to Lessor increases under this section as Additional Rent. (Additional The increase(s) shall be made as provided herein, utilizing the Rent) following definitions:

 (a) "Real Property Taxes" shall mean taxes on real property and personal property, including all Lessee's improvements that are paid for by Lessor and not reimbursed by any tenant(s) of the Building; charges and assessments levied with respect to the land, the Building, any improvements, fixtures, and equipment and all other property of Lessor, real or personal, used directly in the operation of the Building; and any taxes levied or assessed in addition to or in lieu of, in whole or in part, such real property taxes, or any other tax upon leasing of the Building or rents collected, but not including any federal or state income tax or franchise tax attributable to the Building.

 (b) "Calendar Year" shall mean the twelve (12) month period commencing January 1 and ending December 31.

 (c) "Base Tax Year" shall mean the Calendar Year 2006.

 (d) "City's Share of Real Property Taxes" shall mean the amount of any increase in Real Property Taxes payable during any Calendar Year by Lessor over the amount of Real Property Taxes payable during the Base Tax Year by Lessor multiplied by the Lessee's Percentage of the Building, plus any Real Property Taxes attributable to Property of the Lessee, if any.

 (e) "Lessee's Percentage of the Building" as used herein means the approximate number of rentable square feet in the Premises divided by the approximate 170,000 rentable square feet in the Building expressed as a percentage. The initial Lessee's Percentage of the Building is 9.53%.

 Additional Rent for Estimated Increases in Lessor's Share of Real Property Taxes: Within ninety (90) days after the commencement of each Calendar Year (except the Base Tax Year), Lessor shall furnish Lessee with a written statement setting forth the estimated Lessee's Share of Real Property Taxes for such Calendar Year. One-twelfth (1/12) of the amount, if any, by which such estimated Lessee's Share of Real Property Taxes exceeds the Real Property Taxes for the Base Tax Year shall be Additional Rent payable by Lessee as provided in this Lease Agreement for each month during such Lease Year.

 Actual Real Property Taxes: Within ninety (90) days after the close of each Calendar Year during the Term hereof, or as soon thereafter as practicable, Lessor shall deliver to Lessee a written statement setting forth Lessee's actual Share of Real Property Taxes during the preceding Calendar Year. If such amount for any Calendar Year exceeds the amount paid pursuant to Section 2) above as Additional Rent for such Calendar Year, Lessee shall pay the amount of such excess to Lessor as added Additional Rent within thirty (30) days after receipt of such statement by Lessor. If such statement shows such amount to be less than the amount paid by Lessee to Lessor pursuant to Section 2) above, then the amount of such overpayment shall be credited by Lessor to the next immediate Rent payable by Lessee until such overpayment is fully credited or, at Lessee's option, shall be refunded.

 Personal Property Taxes: Lessee shall pay, prior to delinquency; all Personal Property Taxes payable with respect to all Property of Lessee located on the Premises or in the Building and shall provide promptly, upon request of Lessor, written proof of such payment.

 Determinations: The determination of Lessee's Share of Real Property Taxes per paragraph 1(d) of this Section, and estimates thereof per paragraph 2 of this Section shall be made by Lessor, but shall be reasonable and the calculations thereof shall be made available to Lessee upon written request.

 End of Term: If this Lease shall expire or terminate on a day other than the last day of a Calendar Year, the amount of any adjustment between Lessee's Share of Real Property Taxes and estimates thereof with respect to the Calendar Year in which such expiration or termination occurs will be prorated based upon the number of days Lessee occupied the Premises during that Calendar Year and any amount payable by Lessor to Lessee or Lessee to Lessor with respect to such adjustment shall be payable within thirty (30) days after delivery by Lessor to Lessee of the statement of Lessee's Share of Real Property Taxes with respect to such Calendar Year.

 Nonpayment of Additional Rent: In the event of nonpayment of Additional Rent owing by Lessee hereunder, Lessor shall have the same rights with respect to such nonpayment as it has with respect to any other nonpayment of Rent hereunder.

 OPERATING Definition of Terms: In addition to the Base Rent, Lessee COSTS shall pay to Lessor increases under this Section as "Additional ("Additional Rent". The increase(s) shall be made as provided herein, Rent") utilizing the following definitions:

 (a) "Operating Costs" shall include the Building's Costs of Utilities and Other Operating Costs.

 (i) "Costs of Utilities" shall mean all expenses paid or incurred by Lessor for electricity, including any surcharges imposed, water, gas, sewers, and similar utilities service for the Building.

 (ii) "Other Operating Costs" shall mean the expenses reasonably paid or incurred by Lessor for maintaining, operating and repairing the Building and the personal property used in conjunction therewith (and no other building owned or operated by or for Lessor), including, the costs of refuse collection; supplies; janitorial and cleaning, window washing, landscape maintenance, and other services of independent contractors; compensation (including employment taxes and fringe benefits) of all employees who perform duties in connection with the operation, maintenance and repair of the Building (excluding compensation applicable to work performed on other properties), its equipment and the Land upon which it is situated; insurance premiums; licenses; permits and  inspection fees; customary management fees (not to exceed five percent (5%) of the rent payable by tenants of the Building); legal and accounting expenses; and any other expense or charge, whether or not hereinabove described, that in accordance with generally accepted accounting and management practices would be considered an expense of maintaining, operating or repairing the Building, excluding:

 (1) Costs of any special services rendered to any individual tenant (including Lessee) for which a special charge is made;

 (2) Real Property Taxes (as defined in this Lease); and

 (3) Depreciation or amortization of costs required to be capitalized in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices (except that "Operating Costs" shall include amortization of capital improvements made subsequent to the initial development of the Building that are designed with a reasonable probability of improving the operating efficiency of the Building, provided that such amortization costs shall not exceed expected savings in operating costs resulting from such capital improvements).

 (b) "Calendar Year" shall mean the twelve-month period commencing January 1 and ending December 31.

 (c) "Base Services Year" shall mean the Calendar Year 2006.

 (d) "Actual Costs" shall mean the actual expenses paid or incurred by Lessor for Operating Costs during any Calendar Year of the Term hereof.

 (e) "Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises" shall mean the Actual Costs multiplied by Lessee's Percentage of the Building. "City's Percentage of the Building" as used herein means the approximate number of rentable square feet in the Premises divided by the approximate 170,000 rentable square feet in the Building expressed as a percentage. The initial Lessee's Percentage of the Building is 9.53%.

 (f) "Estimated Costs Allocable to the Premises" shall mean Lessor's estimate of Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises for the following Calendar Year to be given by Lessor to Lessee pursuant to Section 3) below.

 2. Base Amount: Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises for the Base Services Year shall be deemed the "Base Amount" for purposes of this Section; provided, however, that for purposes of determining any Additional Rent for Operating Costs, Lessor shall estimate, to the extent required by Section 7 below captioned "Further Adjustment", the Base Amount in connection with the statement furnished in accordance with Section 3) immediately below.

 3. Additional Rent for Estimated Increases in Costs: Within ninety (90) days of the commencement of each Calendar Year (except the Base Services Year) during the Term hereof, or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, Lessor shall furnish Lessee a written statement of the Estimated Costs Allocable to the Premises for such Calendar Year, and a calculation of the Additional Rent as follows: One-twelfth (1/12) of the amount, if any, by which such Estimated Costs Allocable to the Premises for such Calendar Year exceed the Base Amount shall be Additional Rent payable by Lessee as provided herein for each month during such Calendar Year. If at any time or times during such Calendar Year it appears to Lessor that the Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises for such Calendar Year will vary from Lessor's estimate by more than five percent (5%) on an annualized basis, Lessor may, by written notice to Lessee, reasonably revise its estimate for such Calendar Year. After Lessee's receipt of any such notice, Additional Rent payments to Lessor for such Calendar Year shall be based on such revised estimate.

 4. Actual Costs: Within ninety (90) days after the close of each Calendar Year during the Term hereof, or as soon thereafter as practicable, Lessor shall deliver to Lessee a written itemized statement setting forth the Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises during the preceding Calendar Year. If such costs for any Calendar Year exceed Estimated Costs Allocable to the Premises paid by Lessee to Lessor pursuant to the immediately preceding Section 3), Lessee shall pay the amount of such excess to Lessor as added Additional Rent within thirty (30) days after receipt of such statement by Lessee. If such statement shows such costs to be less than the amount paid by Lessee to Lessor pursuant to the immediately preceding Section 3), then the amount of such overpayment by Lessee shall be credited by Lessor to the next immediate Rent payable by Lessee or, at Lessee's option, shall be refunded.

 5. Determinations: The determination of Actual Costs and Estimated Costs Allocable to the Premises shall be made by Lessor, but shall be reasonable and the calculations thereof shall be made available to Lessee upon Lessee's written request.

 6. End of Term: If this Lease shall expire or terminate on a day other than the last day of a Lease Year, the amount of any adjustment between Estimated and Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises with respect to the Lease Year in which such expiration or termination occurs will be prorated based upon the number of days Lessee occupied the Premises during that Calendar Year; and any amount payable by Lessor to Lessee or Lessee to Lessor with respect to such adjustment shall be payable within thirty (30) days after delivery by Lessor to Lessee of the statement of Actual Costs Allocable to the Premises with respect to such Lease Year.

 7. Further Adjustment: In the event the average occupancy level of the Building for the Base Services Year and/or any subsequent Lease Year was not ninety-five percent (95%) or more of full occupancy, then the Actual Costs for such year shall be proportionately adjusted by Lessor to reflect those costs that would have been incurred had the Building been ninety-five (95%) percent occupied during such Lease Year.

 8. Base Rent: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section or in the Section entitled "Real Property Taxes", the Rent payable by Lessee shall in no event be less than the Base Rent specified in this Lease Agreement.

 9. Nonpayment of Additional Rent: In the event of nonpayment of the Additional Rent hereunder, Lessor shall have the same rights with respect to such nonpayment as it has with respect to any other nonpayment of Rent hereunder.

 IMPROVEMENTS; 1. Improvements. Lessor shall oversee the construction of the IMPROVEMENT improvements described in this Section (the "Improvements") on ALLOWANCE; the following terms and conditions: ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENT (a) Preparation of the Space Plan and Plans and ALLOWANCE Specifications. The space plan (the "Space Plan") and specifications (the "Specifications") have been reviewed and approved by Lessor and Lessee. A copy of the Space Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit A-1 and a copy of the Specifications is attached hereto as Exhibit A-2.

 (b) Construction of Improvements. Lessor and Lessee agree that Lessor shall select a general contractor (the "Contractor") and enter into a construction contract (the "Construction Contract") with such Contractor to construct the Improvements. Lessor's representatives shall oversee all aspects of the construction process, and Lessee shall have no liability under the above referenced Construction Contract, so long as Lessee does not order changes to the work or additional work. If Lessee orders changes to the work or extra work after Construction Contract execution, then Lessee's liability shall be limited to the agreed cost of Lessee ordered changed or extra work.

 (c) Lessee's Representative. Prior to the commencement of the construction of the Improvements, Lessee shall designate in writing one individual who shall be Lessee's representative during the construction of the Improvements. Lessor and Contractor shall be entitled to rely on the decisions of Lessee's representative regarding the Improvements (and the decision of Lessee's representative shall be binding upon Lessee) until Lessor and Contractor have received written notice from Lessee that such person's authority has been revoked and a replacement representative has been appointed.

 AGREEMENT This Lease Agreement consists of this "Part A - Signature Form" CONTENTS plus "Part B - General Terms and Conditions"; "Exhibit A - Premises; Exhibit A-1 - Space Plan, Exhibit A-2 - Specifications", all of which, by this reference, are incorporated herein and embody the entire agreement of the parties hereto. There are no other understandings or agreements, written or oral, between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof.

 EFFECTUATION In order to be effective, this Lease Agreement must be (1) signed by an authorized representative of the Lessor and returned to Lessee at the address set forth below, and (2) signed by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities pursuant to ordinance authority. Lessor acknowledges that if the Lease Agreement is signed by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities prior to obtaining ordinance authority, this Lease Agreement shall not take effect unless and until the Seattle City Council provides such ordinance authority. If the Seattle City Council does not provide such ordinance authority on or before September 30, 2006 then either Lessor or Lessee may terminate this Lease at any time thereafter by giving notice to such effect to the other party.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have affixed their signatures below.

 Lessee: Lessor:

 City of Seattle, a municipal corporation CB Property, LLC of the State of Washington, acting through and by Seattle Public Utilities

 By_____________________________________ By: Chuck Clarke, Director Its______________________________________ Seattle Public Utilities Date: Date:

 Authorizing Ordinance:

 Lessee's Address for all communications: Lessor's Address for all communications:

 Seattle Public Utilities CB Property, LLC Real Property Services c/o Pinnacle Realty P. O. Box 34018 810 Third Avenue, Suite 140 Seattle, WA 98124 Seattle, WA 98104

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgment by Lessor)

 THE COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day of , 2005, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Joel Aslanian, to me known to be the Manager of the Lessor, CB Property, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, who executed the foregoing document and acknowledged the same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute such document for and on behalf of said.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 (Signature)____________________________ (Printed or typed name of Notary Public)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at __________________ . My appointment expires _______________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss. (Acknowledgment for Lessee of Seattle) THE COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ______________ day of___________, , 2005 , before me, personally appeared Chuck Clarke to me known to be the Director of Seattle Public Utilities of The City of Seattle, who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of Lessee of Seattle for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he is authorized to execute said instrument.

 GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year last above written.

 ___________________________ (Signature) (Printed or typed name of Notary Public)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _____________ . My commission expires _________________________.

 LEASE AGREEMENT

 PART B - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 1. POSSESSION. In the event of the inability of the Lessor to deliver possession of the Premises, or any portion thereof, with the Improvements substantially completed, at the time of the commencement of the term of this Lease, due to a cause within Lessor's reasonable control, Lessee, at its option may elect to retain the lease and insist upon possession or to cancel this lease as a result of the Lessor's failure to deliver possession. In the event Lessee elects to cancel, the Lessor shall be liable for incremental costs and other damages incurred by Lessee in acquiring comparable property. In the event Lessee elects to retain the lease, Lessee shall not be liable for any rent or other expense related to the Premises until such time as the Lessor can deliver possession. In the event that, by mutual agreement, Lessee takes possession of the Premises, or any part thereof, prior to the commencement of the specified term of this lease, Lessee shall pay as rent for that additional period that percentage of the monthly rent payable under Part A hereof, prorated on a daily basis, that is equivalent to the percentage of the floor area of the Premises actually occupied by Lessee during said period. Lessee acknowledges and agrees that fire, earthquake or other casualty, or other Acts of God are beyond Lessor's reasonable control.

 2. ACCESS. Lessee shall allow the Lessor or the Lessor's agent free access at all reasonable times to said Premises to inspect, clean, or make repairs, additions or alterations to the Premises or any connected property owned by or under the control of the Lessor, but this provision shall not be construed as an agreement on the part of the Lessor to make such repairs, additions or alterations nor a waiver of Lessee's right of quiet enjoyment. All such work shall be undertaken in a way so as to minimize interference with Lessee's use of the Premises.

 3. UTILITIES AND OTHER SERVICES.

 (a) The Lessor, at the Lessor's sole expense, except as provided in Part A hereof, shall provide or shall otherwise pay for, when due, all costs for providing all utilities and other services on or to the Premises including but not limited to elevator service, electricity, water, sewer, garbage, heating and cooling or air conditioning, janitorial, and security. Lessee shall pay all charges for utility installations and modifications thereto occasioned by Lessee's requirements.

 (b) Lessee may not, except with Lessor's prior written approval, use electricity for lighting in excess of the City of Seattle Energy Code in the Premises. In addition, Lessee may not use electricity for other than office purposes in excess of that normally used by general office tenants, except with Lessor's prior written consent. If such consent is given, Lessee shall pay Lessor an amount equal to the sum paid by the Lessor for such additional energy. Unless this amount can be mutually agreed upon between the parties hereto, it shall be determined by measurements through metering equipment furnished and installed by the Lessor at Lessee's cost, and the additional cost of electrical energy so required by Lessee shall be computed at the marginal rate charged the Lessor by the utility company. In no event shall Lessee's use of electricity exceed the capacity of existing feeders to the Building or the risers or wiring installation, and the Lessor may prohibit the use of any electrical equipment that, in the Lessor's reasonable opinion, will overload such wiring or interfere with the use thereof by other tenants in the Building. If Lessor consents to use of equipment requiring such changes, Lessee shall pay the cost of installing any additional risers, panels or other facilities that may be necessary to furnish energy to the Premises.

 4. CARE OF PREMISES. The Premises shall at all times be kept and used in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington and ordinances of The City of Seattle, and in accordance with all duly authorized directions, rules, and regulations of the Health Officer, Fire Marshall, Building Official or other proper officer of The City of Seattle; and Lessee will not permit any waste, damage or injury to the Premises, use or permit in said Premises anything that will increase the rate of fire insurance thereon, maintain anything that may be dangerous to life or limb, permit any objectionable noise or odor to escape or to be emitted from said Premises, or permit anything to be done upon said Premises that in any way will tend to create a nuisance.

 5. MAINTENANCE - REPAIRS. The Premises have been inspected by both parties and are accepted by Lessee in their existing condition as of the commencement date of this Lease Agreement, without reservation except for latent defects or faulty construction of the Premises not reasonably discoverable by inspection at the time of taking possession. All improvements and alterations requested by Lessee that are in addition to the Improvements identified in Part A hereof will be constructed at Lessee's sole cost and expense and will be maintained and repaired as provided in this paragraph and otherwise in this Lease Agreement. Except as otherwise provided for herein, the Lessor, at its sole expense, shall keep and preserve the Premises in good repair, including but not limited to all structural and non- structural parts thereof, elevators, plumbing, heating, cooling, and electrical, gas and other utility systems; and other equipment and appurtenances of the Premises and the structure of which the Premises form a part.

 6. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION. In the event the Premises are damaged by fire, earthquake, act of war, or other extraordinary casualty to such an extent as to render the same untenable in whole or in a substantial part thereof, or are destroyed, it shall be optional with the Lessor to repair or rebuild the same, and after the happening of any such event, Lessee shall give the Lessor or the Lessor's agent written notice thereof within forty-eight (48) hours of such occurrence. The Lessor shall have not more than ten (10) days after the date of such notification to notify Lessee in writing of the Lessor's intentions to repair or rebuild said Premises; and if the Lessor elects to repair or rebuild said Premises, the Lessor shall prosecute the work of such repairing or rebuilding without unnecessary delay. During any period in which the Premises are rendered unfit for occupancy because of any such casualty, the rent of said Premises shall be abated in the same ratio that the portion of the Premises rendered for the time being unfit for occupancy shall bear to the whole of the Premises. In the event the building in which the Premises are located is destroyed or is damaged (even though the Premises hereby leased shall not be damaged thereby) to such an extent that, in the opinion of the Lessor, it is not practicable to repair or rebuild, then the Lessor may, at its option, terminate this Lease Agreement lease by providing written notice thereof to Lessee within thirty (30) days after such damage or destruction has been determined to be irreparable.

 7. HAZARDOUS WASTE AND MATERIALS. Lessee shall not knowingly dispose of or knowingly allow the release of any hazardous waste or materials in the Premises, or in any improvements placed on the Premises. Lessee represents and warrants to Lessor that Lessee's intended use of the Premises does not involve the use, production, disposal or bringing on to the Premises of any hazardous waste or materials. As used herein, the term "hazardous waste or materials" includes any substance, waste or material defined or designated as hazardous, toxic or dangerous (or any similar term) by any federal, state or local statute, regulation, rule or ordinance now or hereafter in effect, but does not include office supplies or cleaning supplies kept in compliance with all applicable laws. Lessee shall promptly comply with all statutes, regulations and ordinances, and with all orders, decrees or judgments of governmental authorities or courts having jurisdiction, relating to Lessee's use, collection, treatment, disposal, storage, control, removal or cleanup of hazardous waste or materials in or on the Premises or incorporated in any improvement, at Lessee's expense; except that Lessee shall not be responsible for removal or cleanup of hazardous waste or materials placed onto the Premises or the Property prior to the commencement of this Lease or placed onto the Premises or the Property after the commencement of this Lease by anyone other than Lessee, its guests, agents, employees, contractors, or invitees or any person or entity acting through or on account of the actions or inactions of Lessee. Lessee shall notify Lessor immediately of any known release of any hazardous waste or materials on the Premises.

 After notice to Lessee and a reasonable opportunity for Lessee to effect such compliance, Lessor may, but is not obligated to, enter upon the Premises and take such actions and incur such costs and expenses to effect such compliance as it deems advisable to protect its interest in the Premises; provided, however, that Lessor shall not be obligated to give Lessee notice and an opportunity to effect such compliance if (1) such delay might result in material adverse harm to Lessor or the Premises, (2) Lessee has already had actual knowledge of the situation and a reasonable opportunity to effect such compliance, or (3) an emergency exists. Whether or not Lessee has actual knowledge of the release of hazardous waste or materials on the Premises as a result of Lessee's use of the Premises, Lessee shall reimburse Lessor for the full amount of all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Lessor in connection with compliance activities undertaken by or for Lessor as a consequence of a Lessee act or omission; provided, however, that Lessee shall not reimburse Lessor for costs and expenses incurred by Lessor related to hazardous waste or materials placed onto the Premises or the Property prior to the commencement of this Lease or placed onto the Premises or the Property after the commencement of this Lease by anyone other than Lessee, its guests, agents, employees, contractors, or invitees or any person or entity acting through or on account of the actions or inactions of Lessee.

 Lessee agrees to indemnify and hold Lessor harmless against any and all losses, liabilities, suits, obligations, fines, damages, judgments, penalties, claims, charges, cleanup costs, remedial actions, costs and expenses (including without limitations, reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) that may be imposed on, incurred or paid by, or asserted against Lessor of the Premises by reason of, or in connection with the acts or omissions of Lessee, in its capacity as tenant, or its guests, agents, officials, employees, contractors, subtenants or invitees or any person or entity acting through or on account of the actions or inactions of Lessee, resulting in the release of any hazardous waste or materials in or on the Premises or the Property; provided, however, that Lessee shall not indemnify and hold Lessor harmless if the hazardous waste or materials were placed onto the Premises or the Property prior to the commencement of this Lease or placed onto the Premises or the Property after the commencement of this Lease by anyone other than Lessee, its guests, agents, employees, contractors, or invitees or any person or entity acting through or on account of the actions or inactions of Lessee.

 Lessor agrees to indemnify and hold Lessee harmless against any and all losses, liabilities, suits, obligations, fines, damages, judgments, penalties, claims, charges, cleanup costs, remedial actions, costs and expenses (including without limitations, reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) that may be imposed on, incurred or paid by, or asserted against Lessee by reason of, or in connection with the acts or omissions of Lessor or its guests, agents, employees, contractors or invitees or any person or entity acting through or on account of the actions or inactions of Lessor, resulting in the release of any hazardous waste or materials in or on the Premises or the Property; provided, however, that Lessor shall not indemnify and hold Lessee harmless if the hazardous waste or materials were placed onto the Premises or the Property by Lessee or its guests, agents, officials, employees, contractors, subtenants or invitees or any person or entity acting through or on account of the actions or inactions of Lessee.

 Lessee further acknowledges that Lessor has not made any warranty or representation covering the presence or absence of any hazardous waste or materials in or on the Property, Premises, any adjacent property, or in any improvements placed in the Premises. If Lessor is required by any statute, regulation, order, decree, judgment, or other law to take any action to remove or abate any hazardous waste or materials, or if Lessor deems it necessary to conduct special maintenance or testing procedures with regard to any hazardous waste or materials, or to remove or abate such hazardous waste or materials, Lessor may take only such action or conduct such procedures (1) after prior written notice to Lessee and (2) in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere with Lessee's use and enjoyment of the Premises.

 8. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.

 (a) General Requirement. The Lessor shall perform and comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 (b) Licenses and Similar Authorizations. The Lessor and/or Lessee, when applicable, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement, all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 (c) Taxes. The Lessor shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies and assessments on the Premises.

 (d) Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action. The Lessor agrees to and shall comply with all Federal, State and local laws and ordinances prohibiting discrimination with regard to race, color, national origin, ancestry, creed, religion, political ideology, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap.

 (e) Compliance with Seattle's Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance Required: Each party is required to comply with the Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance of the City of Seattle (ordinance 119601), as amended, which is codified at Seattle Municipal Code Section 14.20. Conduct made unlawful by that ordinance constitutes a breach of contract. Engaging in an unfair contracting practice may also result in the imposition of a civil fine or forfeiture under the Seattle Criminal Code as well as various civil penalties.

 9. INDEMNIFICATION. The Lessor shall defend, indemnify, and hold Lessee harmless from all claims for accident or injury caused to persons or property (i) by the fault or neglect of the Lessor or any of its employees or agents; or (ii) occurring in, on, or about any portion of the Building that is under the control of the Lessor; or (iii) caused by any fault or defect inherent in said Building or (iv) any other defect in or malfunction of said Building not discernable by reasonable inspection.

 Lessee shall defend, indemnify, and hold the Lessor harmless from all claims for accident or injury caused to persons or property by the fault or neglect of Lessee or any of its employees or agents, to the extent of the fault or neglect of Lessee. All personal property of Lessee on said Premises shall be at the risk of and the responsibility of Lessee.

 10. SIGNS. Lessee may place identification signs upon the Premises, subject to the prior approval of the Lessor; and permission to place such signs shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Lessor. The Lessor shall have the right to place and maintain "For Rent" signs in a conspicuous place on said Premises and to show the Premises to prospective tenants for ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of this Lease Agreement.

 11. ALTERATIONS, ADDITIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS.

 a) Lessee shall not make or cause to be made any alteration, addition or improvement to said Premises without first obtaining the written consent of the Lessor for such work. Any alteration, addition or improvement, other than those identified in Part A of this Lease Agreement, that is made solely for the convenience of Lessee or any of its employees or agents, or of the program to be conducted on the Premises shall be at the sole cost and expense of Lessee or the program being conducted on the Premises except for an alteration, addition or improvement occasioned by inherent damage or a latent defect in the Premises or of the structure in which the Premises are located, the cost of which alteration, addition or improvement shall be paid by the Lessor.

 b) The Lessor shall pay the cost of all alterations, additions, and improvements initiated for the Lessor's convenience, and save Lessee free and harmless from damage, loss or expense arising out of said alterations performed by the Lessor or on its behalf.

 c) If the improvements as installed by or for Lessee may be removed without disturbance, molestation, or injury to the Premises, Lessee at its option, may remove or cause to be removed said improvements at Lessee's own expense or may surrender the same with the Premises to remain as a part thereof and to become the property of the Lessor upon the expiration or termination of this Lease Agreement. In the event said improvements are surrendered, the Lessor and Lessee shall agree as to their value, and if they constitute a benefit to the Premises, compensation in the agreed amount therefore shall be made to Lessee within fifteen (15) days of said surrender. If Lessee and the Lessor cannot agree upon compensation for said benefit to the Premises, Lessee shall remove said improvements, exercising due caution and care to minimize damage to the Premises. Lessee shall accept responsibility for the minimal repair resulting from said improvement removal.

 d) Lessee shall not without the written consent of the Lessor, operate or install any electrical equipment or machinery (other than ordinary office equipment), or replace or relocate any electric light fixtures.

 12. TERMINATION.

 Notwithstanding any other provision herein, in the event that either party to this Lease Agreement defaults in the performance of any of the terms, provisions, covenants and agreements to be kept, observed and performed as provided in the following sections:

 Part A - TERM Part B - section3 UTILITIES AND OTHER SERVICES

 Part A - RENT Part B - section4 CARE OF PREMISES

 Part B - section5 MAINTENANCE-REPAIRS

 and such default is not corrected within thirty (30) days after the receipt of written notice thereof from the other party, then the non- breaching party may, at its option, immediately terminate this Lease Agreement, without notice or other proceedings, and in such event the Lessor may also re-enter and take possession of the Premises. Damages may be claimed for a default in the performance of any of the Lease Agreement obligations, but a default of any obligation not listed above shall not be cause for termination of this Lease Agreement unless such default is repeated upon three or more occasions and a notice to comply is provided after each such instance.

 13. SURRENDER OF PREMISES. Upon the expiration or termination of this Lease Agreement, including any extensions thereof, whichever is earlier, Lessee shall quit and surrender said Premises and all keys thereto, without notice and in as good condition as received at the commencement of the term hereof except for ordinary wear and tear; damage or destruction by fire or other casualty or circumstances uncontrollable by Lessee; property damaged, removed, or destroyed by the Lessor or its agents; latent defects or faulty construction of the structure of which the Premises comprise a part, not reasonably discoverable by inspection at the time of taking possession; and alterations, additions or improvements made to the Premises by Lessee, subject to the provisions of Section B, 11 (c).

 14. HOLDOVER. If Lessee shall, with written consent of Lessor, hold over after the expiration of the term of this Lease Agreement, such tenancy shall be for an indefinite period of time on a month-to-month tenancy, which tenancy may be terminated as provided by the laws of the State of Washington. During such tenancy, Lessee shall pay to Lessor the same rate of rental payable by Lessee during the last month of the Term as set forth herein, unless a different rate shall be agreed upon in writing by Lessor and Lessee, and shall be bound by all of the terms, covenants, and conditions herein specified, so far as applicable. In the event Lessee shall hold over after the expiration of the term of this Lease Agreement without the written consent of Lessor, such tenancy may be terminated as provided by the laws of the State of Washington; and during such hold over tenancy, Lessee shall pay to Lessor one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the rate of rental payable by Lessee during the last month of the Term as set forth herein.

 15. ADJUDICATION. This Lease Agreement shall be construed under all of the applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the United States of America, the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle. In the case of a dispute between the parties, jurisdiction over such dispute shall be with the Superior Court of King County, Washington.

 16. NOTICES. All notices to be given by either of the parties hereto to the other party, including but not limited to invoices, shall be in writing and may either be delivered personally or may be deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, as either certified or regular mail, addressed as specified in Part A hereof or to such other respective addresses as either party may from time to time designate for itself in a notice to the other.

 17. SUBORDINATION AND ATTORNMENT; MORTGAGEE PROTECTION.

 a) Subordination: At the request of Lessor, Lessee shall promptly execute and deliver all instruments which may be appropriate to subordinate this Lease Agreement to any existing or future mortgages or deeds of trust on the Building or on the leasehold interest held by Lessor, and to any extensions, renewals thereof; provided, that the mortgagee or beneficiary, as the case may be, shall agree, in exchange for the agreement of Lessee to attorn to such mortgagee or beneficiary, to recognize this Lease Agreement in the event of foreclosure if Lessee is not in material default at such time.

 b) City's Certificate. Lessee, at any time and from time to time upon not less than ten (10) days' prior written notice from Lessor, shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to Lessor a statement in writing (i) certifying that this Lease Agreement is unmodified and in full force and effect (or, if modified, stating the nature of such modification and certifying that this Lease Agreement as so modified is in full force and effect), and the date to which the rental and other charges are paid in advance, if any, and (ii) acknowledging that there are not, to Lessee's knowledge, any uncured defaults on the part of the Lessor hereunder, or specifying such defaults if any are claimed, and (iii) setting forth the date of commencement of rents and expiration of the Term hereof. Any such statement may be relied upon by and prospective purchaser or encumbrancer of all or any portion of the Building.

 18. SELF-INSURANCE. Through a program of self-insurance, any incident that occurs as a result of Lessee's negligence or for which Lessee is found responsible shall be administered by Lessee as a self-insured entity, with subrogation as may be applicable, subject, however, to the provisions of Section 19 captioned "Waiver of Subrogation". In addition, Lessee maintains a property insurance program covering its buildings, structures and tangible personal property that is subject to a substantial deductible, presently $500,000 each claim.

 19. WAIVER OF SUBROGATION. Neither Lessee nor the Lessor shall be liable to the other party or to any insurance company (by way of subrogation or otherwise) insuring the other party for any loss or damage to any building, structure or tangible personal property of the other occurring in or about the Premises, even though such loss or damage might have been occasioned by the negligence of such party, its agents or employees, if such loss or damage is caused by or results from perils normally included in a "special form - causes of loss" or an "all risk" property insurance policy, including earthquake and flood. Each party shall cause each property insurance policy obtained by it to contain such waiver of subrogation clause. This waiver shall also apply to any portion of any such loss or damage that is within the deductible amount under any property insurance policy actually carried by either Lessor or Lessee, provided that, however, as respects loss or damage to Lessee's tangible personal property, the waiver shall not apply to the difference between the property insurance deductible that Lessor maintains and the property insurance deductible that Lessee maintains.

 20. RELATIONSHIP. In no event shall Lessee be construed or held to have become in any way or for any purpose a partner, associate, or joint venture of the Lessor or any party associated with the Lessor in the conduct of the Lessor's business or otherwise. This Lease Agreement does not constitute the Lessor the agent or legal representative of Lessee for any purpose whatsoever.

 21. AMENDMENTS. The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to renegotiate any and all of the provisions hereof from time to time as may be necessary and to amend this Lease Agreement accordingly; Provided, however, that no alteration or modification of the terms or conditions hereof shall be valid and binding unless made in writing and signed by the authorized representative of the parties hereto.

 22. NO WAIVER OF DEFAULT. Lessee does not waive full compliance with the terms and conditions of this Lease Agreement by the payment of rent. No waiver of default by either party of any of the terms, covenants, and conditions hereof to be performed, kept and observed by the other party shall be construed as, or operated as, a waiver of any subsequent default or of any of the terms, covenants, and conditions herein contained, to be performed, kept and observed by the other party.

 23. BINDING EFFECT. This Lease Agreement shall be binding upon the heirs, successors, assigns, and all other parties legally empowered with signatory rights of any or all of the parties hereto.

 24. INVALIDITY OF PROVISIONS. Should any term, provision, condition or other portion of this Lease Agreement be held to be inoperative, invalid or void, the same shall not affect any other term, provision, condition or other portion of this Lease Agreement; and the remainder of this Lease Agreement shall be effective as if such term, provision, condition or portion had not been contained herein.

 25. LESSOR'S OPTION TO TERMINATE FOR MAJOR RENOVATION. If Lessor desires undertake a Major Renovation of the Building, then Lessor shall have the right, at its option, to terminate this Lease by giving Tenant notice (the "Termination Notice") to such effect not less than one (1) year prior to the termination date set forth in the Termination Notice (the "Termination Date"), provided, however, that in no event shall the Termination Date be prior to July 31, 2012. On the Termination Date the Term of this Lease shall end and both parties shall be relieved and released of and from any and all further liability or responsibility under this Lease. The term "Major Renovation" means a renovation of the Building that involves renovations or modifications of the Building, the Building structure and/or the Building systems that would substantially interfere with Tenant's use and occupancy of the Premises in Lessor's reasonable judgment.

```
