

********

**Council Bill Number: 115724**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122252**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Wing Luke Memorial Foundation d/b/a Wing Luke Asian Museum; authorizing the purchase and acceptance of a restrictive covenant and easement from the Wing Luke Memorial Foundation to provide City and public access to the Wing Luke Asian Museum and community meeting facilities at the East Kong Yick building property for a period of fifteen years.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 25, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 3, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 2, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 18, 2006
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** NON-PROFIT-ORGANIZATIONS, BUILDINGS, OFFICE-FACILITIES, FUNDS, BUDGET, EASEMENTS, MEETINGS, EVENTS GEORGETOWN, MUSEUMS, INTERNATIONAL-DISTRICT

**Fiscal Note:**115724

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Wing Luke Memorial Foundation d/b/a Wing Luke Asian Museum; authorizing the purchase and acceptance of a restrictive covenant and easement from the Wing Luke Memorial Foundation to provide City and public access to the Wing Luke Asian Museum and community meeting facilities at the East Kong Yick building property for a period of fifteen years.

 WHEREAS, the Wing Luke Memorial Foundation d/b/a the Wing Luke Asian Museum ("the Museum") owns the historic East Kong Yick building and is redeveloping it to expand the Museum's programs and services, provide community meeting facilities and provide a new home for the Museum; and

 WHEREAS, the new Museum, in its expanded facility, will attract as many as 60,000 visitors per year, thereby stimulating the local economy, directly benefiting other area businesses and adding to the economic vitality of the International District; and

 WHEREAS, the Wing Luke Asian Museum will increase the cost of admission by at least 50 percent once the new museum space is opened to the public; and

 WHEREAS, the City has a public interest in supporting facilities that celebrate Seattle's culturally rich and artistically diverse communities; and

 WHEREAS, the City has a public interest in ensuring its citizens have affordable access to Seattle's cultural and artistic facilities; and

 WHEREAS, the City has a need for meeting space in the International District neighborhood for official City meetings and other functions; and

 WHEREAS, the 2006 Adopted Budget appropriated $1,000,000 from the Cumulative Reserve Subfund Unrestricted Subaccount for the Wing Luke Asian Museum project in the Fleets and Facilities 2006-2011 Capital Improvement Program; NOW THEREFORE

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department is authorized to spend the $1,000,000 appropriation for the Wing Luke Asian Museum Capital Improvement Program project (Project ID #A1GM202) to purchase, on behalf of the City of Seattle, the Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for the Wing Luke Asian Museum ("Covenant and Easement"). The Director of the Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs ("Director of Arts") is authorized to accept the Covenant and Easement for the City; and is further authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to enter into the Agreement Between the City of Seattle and the Wing Luke Memorial Foundation Regarding Restrictive Covenant and Easement In Gross for the Wing Luke Asian Museum ("Agreement") substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1.

 Section 2. The Director of Arts shall ensure that the Covenant and Easement is recorded by the King County Recorder's Office, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit B to the Agreement.

 Section 3. The Director of Arts is authorized to administer and manage the Covenant and Easement and the Agreement, and the City's rights thereunder, and to enter into such agreements and execute such documents (including without limitation an escrow agreement), as the Director of Arts deems necessary to effectuate the transaction contemplated by this ordinance. The Director of Arts is further authorized to make such additions, modifications or deletions to the Easement or Agreement as the Director of Arts deems to be in the best interest of the City.

 Section 4. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after the passage of the ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President ____________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Agreement Between the City of Seattle and the Wing Luke Memorial Foundation Regarding Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for the Wing Luke Asian Museum.

 Amy Herndon

 OACA Purchase of Wing Luke Memorial Foundation Easement

 August 29, 2006

 version 1

 3

 ATTACHMENT 1

 AGREEMENT

 Between

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 and

 THE WING LUKE MEMORIAL FOUNDATION

 Regarding

 RESTRICTIVE COVENANT AND EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR THE WING LUKE ASIAN MUSEUM

 This Agreement is entered into by and between The City of Seattle ("City"), a first class city of the State of Washington, acting by and through the Mayor's Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs ("Department"), and the Wing Luke Memorial Foundation d/b/a Wing Luke Asian Museum ("WLAM"), a Washington non-profit corporation.

 1. RECITALS

 1.1 The Wing Luke Memorial Foundation d/b/a Wing Luke Asian Museum ("WLAM") owns the East Kong Yick building and is redeveloping it to expand WLAM's programs and services, provide community meeting facilities, provide a theater, provide some commercial space, and provide a new home for WLAM;

 1.2 The new WLAM, in its expanded new facility, will attract as many as 60,000 visitors per year, thereby stimulating the local economy, directly benefiting other area businesses and adding to the economic vitality of the International District;

 1.3 The WLAM will increase the cost for admission by at least fifty percent once the new museum space is opened to the public;

 1.4 The City has a public interest in supporting facilities that celebrate Seattle's culturally rich and artistically diverse communities, and has a public interest in ensuring that WLAM continues to operate the museum facilities after redevelopment;

 1.5 The City has a public interest in ensuring that all its citizens, regardless of income level, have affordable access to Seattle's cultural and artistic facilities; and

 1.6 The City has a need for meeting space in the International District neighborhood for official City meetings and other functions.

 The recitals set forth above are incorporated into this Agreement.

 2. DEFINITIONS

 2.1 Agreement: This Agreement between the City and WLAM, including all exhibits.

 2.2 Community and Arts Groups: The meaning of this term shall be liberally construed and shall include, but not be limited to, not for profit organizations, non-profit arts groups, unincorporated associations of persons, and community organizations.

 2.3 Meeting Facilities: The Community Hall, classroom and meeting room as described in the architectural drawings attached as Exhibit A.

 2.4 Covenant and Easement: The Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for WLAM as described and created in this Agreement and the grant attached as Exhibit B.

 2.5 Department: The Mayor's Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs.

 2.6 Covenant and Easement Term and Duration: The period that begins on the date this Agreement becomes effective under Section 3 and ends when the Use Period ends or when the Easement is terminated under the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 2.7 Grantee: The City of Seattle and its successors and designees.

 2.8 Grantor: The Wing Luke Memorial Foundation d/b/a the Wing Luke Asian Museum ("WLAM").

 2.9 Museum: The Wing Luke Asian Museum's ("WLAM") galleries and exhibition spaces as described in the architectural drawings attached as Exhibit A.

 2.10 Property: The entire building commonly known as the East Kong Yick Building and the real property on which it is situated, more specifically described under the legal description in Exhibit B to this Agreement.

 2.11 Theater: The Story Theater as shown on the floor plan attached as Exhibit A to this Agreement.

 2.12 Use Period: The period beginning on the first day of the month immediately

 following the date on which the renovations to the Property are complete and the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities are officially opened and available to the public and ending fifteen (15) years later.

 2.13 Use Rights: The City's and public's right to access and use the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities in the manner described in Section 5 of this Agreement and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement.

 3. EFFECTIVE DATE

 This Agreement shall be effective when fully executed by the parties following approval by the Seattle City Council, and will remain in effect until the fifteen (15) year Use Period expires, unless amended by both parties in writing, or unless terminated under the provisions of this Agreement.

 4. PURCHASE AND GRANT OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT

 By this Agreement, for consideration described in Section 5 and elsewhere in this Agreement, the City purchases and the WLAM grants a restrictive covenant as follows. For the period of time beginning on the date this Agreement becomes effective under Section 3, Grantor covenants that the Property, as described in Exhibit A, shall be used exclusively for the development, construction, renovation and operation of the Wing Luke Asian Museum, the Theater, and Meeting Facilities. Grantor covenants to operate the Museum, Theater, and Meeting Facilities for the entire fifteen (15) year Use Period set forth in this Agreement.

 5. PURCHASE AND GRANT OF EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR CITY AND PUBLIC USE OF AND ACCESS TO THE MUSEUM AND COMMUNITY MEETING FACILITIES

 By this Agreement, the Department, on behalf of the City, also purchases from the WLAM an Easement in Gross for the Wing Luke Asian Museum, such Easement to provide for City and public use of and access to the Wing Luke Asian Museum ("Covenant and Easement") for One Million Dollars and No One/Hundredths ($1,000,000.00). The City shall pay for the easement in two equal installments on December 1, 2006, and April 1, 2007. WLAM grants to the City a Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross, which shall encumber the property and which shall provide a fifteen (15) year term of public and City use of the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities under the terms specified in Section 5.1-5.3 below.

 5.1 Public Use. The City recognizes that Community and Arts Groups' access to and discounted use of Wing Luke Asian Museum's facilities, and free or reduced rate access to the Museum and its productions for seniors, students and at-risk youth and low-income residents serves City purposes. The City desires to provide for such access and use.

 5.1.1 Public Use of Theater and Meeting Facilities. The WLAM shall allow Community and Arts Groups discounted use of the following Museum facilities, as shown on the floor plan in Exhibit A: the Story Theater ("Theater"), Community Hall, classroom and meeting room (collectively, the "Meeting Facilities"). Community and Arts groups shall have the right, collectively, to twelve (12) discounted uses per calendar year, at the rate of twenty-five (25) percent off of the corporate rental rate, for a period of fifteen (15) years. If such groups collectively exercise a total of fewer than twelve (12) uses in any such year, then the balance of that year's allowable uses for the Community and Arts Groups shall not carry forward and shall not increase the number of uses to which such groups collectively are entitled during the following year. The Community and Arts Groups' right to discounted uses will expire at the end of the fifteen (15) year Use Period set forth above. WLAM shall make good-faith efforts to make known the availability of the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities for use by Community and Arts Groups. Such steps shall include, but shall not be limited to, prominently posting notices of such availability on the WLAM website and including such notices of such availability in informational literature concerning WLAM.

 (a) It shall be the responsibility of a Community or Arts Group wishing to use the Property pursuant to this Agreement to contact WLAM before scheduling an event at the Theater or Meeting Facilities in order to confirm the group's status as a Community or Arts Group and to then confirm the facility's availability. If the date is available, and upon the receipt by WLAM of a written reservation, WLAM shall confirm such availability and shall irrevocably reserve the date and time requested. If the date and time are not available, then unless otherwise agreed to by the eligible group in question, WLAM shall offer an equivalent date and time within thirty (30) days after the date originally requested. By reserving a date and time the eligible community group shall have used one of the uses allowed hereunder whether or not the use is cancelled by such group, unless notice of cancellation is given to WLAM at least twenty-one (21) days in advance.

 (b) Any Community or Arts Group using the Theater and/or Meeting Facilities pursuant to this agreement shall observe reasonable rules adopted by WLAM respecting the use of the facilities. The Community or Arts Group shall be responsible for any necessary cleaning and refuse removal after its use of the facilities for a meeting or function. The City shall not be liable for any damage to the Property or personal property of WLAM caused by the negligent or intentional acts of a Community or Arts Group or its invitees in connection with uses by such group pursuant to this Section 5.1.1.

 5.1.2 Student Access to the Museum. Throughout the Use Period when any school group shall visit the Museum as part of a school event, WLAM shall offer free admission to all students who meet the qualifications of the United States National School Lunch Program. There shall be no limit to the number of eligible students receiving free admission to the Museum during official school events. Free admission shall include access to all exhibits and activities during the school event. WLAM shall make good-faith efforts to publicize free admission for eligible students. Such efforts shall include, but shall not be limited to, prominently posting notice of this service in written advertising and literature directed to school groups.

 5.1.3 Access to Museum for students and seniors. Throughout the Use Period WLAM shall have a policy of reduced fee admission for persons who are likely to be unable to pay the full entrance fee, specifically students and seniors. The reduced admission fee shall be 25 percent off of the regular admission fee.

 5.1.4 Free Admission to Museum one day per month. WLAM grants and guarantees the public one free day per month where no charge shall be imposed, or donation shall be requested, for admission to the Museum. Free public admission on one day per month shall continue for the duration of the fifteen (15) year Use Period. The day of free admission shall be determined by WLAM, but shall be consistent from month to month. The City recognizes that other parties may also jointly sponsor the free admission day for part of the Use Period, and this Agreement will not impair WLAM's ability to accept other sponsorship of the free admission day so long as WLAM continues this policy for the entire Use Period and acknowledges the City's sponsorship in any notice and/or written materials regarding the free admission day. Notice of free admission shall be conspicuously posted on the WLAM website on an ongoing basis. WLAM shall provide notice of the free public day in its promotional materials.

 5.1.5 Tickets for City distribution to public. To further serve the purposes set forth in paragraph 5.1, WLAM shall provide the City with 250 Museum admission tickets on an annual basis. The tickets shall allow access to all exhibits and activities during normal hours of operation of the Museum and Community Meeting Facilities. These tickets will be distributed by the City to seniors, at-risk youth and low-income residents through a variety of appropriate agencies.

 5.2 City Use. WLAM grants and guarantees the City, or its designee, free use of the Meeting Facilities, as shown in the floor plan in Exhibit A, three (3) times per calendar year for the duration of the fifteen (15) year Use Period. The City's use of the Meeting Facilities is subject to the following conditions:

 5.2.1 The City, or its designee, shall contact WLAM to reserve the Meeting Facilities for an event. Whenever possible, the City will contact WLAM at least thirty (30) days before the event date. The City, or its designee, shall make all efforts to work with WLAM to schedule meeting times that are in the interest of both parties. When the City confirms a reservation for use of the Meeting Facilities, the City, or its designee, shall have used one (1) of the uses allowed in this Section whether or not the use is cancelled, unless notice of cancellation is given to WLAM at least thirty (30) days in advance.

 5.2.2 If the City, or its designee, does not use the full three (3) uses in any year, then the balance shall not carry forward into the following year.

 5.2.3 The City, or its designee, shall observe any reasonable and lawful policies adopted by WLAM governing the manner of use of the Meeting Facilities. The City, or its designee, shall be responsible for any cleaning and refuse removal caused by the City's use of the Community Meeting Facilities that would not normally be performed by the WLAM's janitorial services. The City, or its designee, shall be liable for any damage to the Meeting Facilities or personal property of WLAM, other than normal wear and tear, caused by the negligent or intentional acts of the City, or its designee or invitees, in connection with the exercise of the City's rights under Section 5.2 only.

 5.3 WLAM is solely responsible for managing the obligations of this Agreement, subject to the terms of this Agreement and the following restrictions:

 5.3.1. WLAM may establish policies that guide hours of operation, codes of conduct, and other procedures necessary to efficiently and fairly operate the Museum and Community Meeting Facilities. However, WLAM's procedures shall maximize public access to the Museum and Meeting Facilities to the fullest extent possible.

 5.3.2 WLAM may require that the City, or its designee, and Community and Arts Groups sign a use agreement for the Museum, Theater, and Meeting Facilities, provided that the use agreement is designed to ensure safe and equitable access to the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities.

 5.3.3 In all uses of the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities pursuant to the Covenant and Easement and this Agreement, WLAM shall provide convenient and safe ingress and egress to the space being used and to appurtenant spaces normally used in connection with such space, including but not limited to restrooms, the lobby and other common areas, all in such manner as to make the space available in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and to permit its use to comply with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and permits.

 5.3.4 WLAM will make reasonable efforts to accommodate the City's, or its designee's, and Community and Arts Groups' scheduling requests pursuant to Sections 5.1 and 5.2. If the requested date and time are available, WLAM shall reserve the Theater or Meeting Facilities for the City or Community or Arts Group. WLAM shall not cancel a City or Community/Arts Group reservation without prior agreement from the City or Community/Arts Group. If the date and time requested are not available, WLAM shall offer an equivalent date and time that is within thirty (30) days of the date originally requested, unless otherwise negotiated with the City or Community/Arts Group.

 5.3.5 The City's right to free uses, and Community and Arts Groups' rights to discounted uses, will expire at the end of the fifteen (15) year Use Period set forth above, provided, that if WLAM fails to honor the City's Use Rights, or Community/Arts Groups' Use Rights, and WLAM has been given notice of such failure within ninety (90) days of occurrence, then the Use Period shall be extended until WLAM has honored the Use Rights.

 6. OBLIGATIONS TO BE SECURED BY RECORDED GRANT OF COVENANT AND EASEMENT

 WLAM's obligations and grant of the Covenant and Easement pursuant to this Agreement will be secured by its execution of a Grant of Covenant and Easement, duly recorded with King County and substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.

 7. CONSTRUCTION, TAXES, MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION RESPONSIBILITIES AND COST

 WLAM shall have sole responsibility for construction, maintenance and operation of the Property, The Museum, the Theater and the Meeting Facilities. This responsibility includes, but is not limited to, the payment of any and all taxes and construction costs, and any costs associated with the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities, and the property on which they are sited. The City will not be responsible for any costs associated with construction, maintenance, or operation of the Property in general, nor will the City be responsible for any costs associated with or arising from the Use Rights other than as allowed in Section 5.2.3.

 8. DEPARTMENT OVERSIGHT/AUDIT

 8.1 The Department shall have the right to monitor and oversee the WLAM's compliance with the requirements and conditions of this Agreement. WLAM shall submit to the Department an annual report documenting WLAM's compliance with this Agreement, no later than sixty (60) days after the close of the calendar year. The annual report shall be in a form and with such reasonable supporting documents as is acceptable to the City. The annual report shall include the quantity of uses by the City, or its designees, report of the free days offered and confirmation of reduced fees, and the quantity of Community and Arts' Groups uses for which credit is claimed under this Agreement. In addition, WLAM shall provide the Department with reasonable access to any additional information, records, and facilities that would assist the Department in monitoring WLAM's compliance with this Agreement.

 8.2 The WLAM shall maintain books, records, documents and other evidence of accounting procedures and practices that sufficiently and properly reflect all direct and indirect costs of any nature expended in connection with the operation and management of the Covenant and Easement. These records shall be subject at all reasonable time to inspection, review or audit by personnel duly authorized by the Department, the City, the Office of the State Auditor, and other officials so authorized by law, rule, regulation or contract.

 9. RECOGNITION OF CITY OF SEATTLE COVENANT AND EASEMENT IN WING LUKE ASIAN MUSEUM'S EAST KONG YICK BUILDING

 9.1 WLAM agrees to acknowledge the Department for securing public access to the Museum and for securing use of WLAM facilities for eligible Community/Arts Groups at a discounted rate. Approved logos and written materials are available by contacting the Department.

 9.2 WLAM agrees to notify the Mayor's Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs in advance of any public activities related to the East Kong Yick Building project, including, but not limited to, ground breaking events, dedications, and other public programs.

 10. INDEMNIFICATION

 The parties recognize that WLAM shall have control over the operation and maintenance of the Property, the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities. As a result, WLAM agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the City of Seattle, its elected officials, officers, employees and agents harmless from any and all damages, claims, liabilities, losses, and/or costs of any kind, including attorney's fees, that arise in any way from City use, City designee's use, and/or public use under the Covenant and Easement, including, but not limited to, use of the Museum, Theater, Meeting Facilities and surrounding grounds and property. This clause applies to claims, liabilities, costs, losses, and/or damages of any kind arising out of or relating to any concurrent act or omission of WLAM or any of its officers, employees, contractors or agents and the City or any City officer, elected official, employee or agent. The defense and indemnification obligation set forth in this section shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 THE PARTIES CERTIFY BY SIGNATURE BELOW THAT THIS INDEMNIFICATION PROVISION WAS INDIVIDUALLY NEGOTIATED.

 11. INSURANCE

 WLAM shall maintain at all times during the life of this Agreement the following insurance:

 11.1 All risks property insurance, including earthquake and flood, on the Property. The amount of insurance shall be not less than the current replacement cost of the Property as established upon each annual insurance policy renewal. The City of Seattle shall be an additional insured, mortgagee and loss payee with respect to the Covenant and Easement as its interest may appear.

 11.2 General (premises) liability insurance on the Property with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 each occurrence bodily injury and property damage combined single limit. The City of Seattle shall be an additional insured for primary and non- contributory limits of liability.

 The insurance described in paragraphs 11.1 and 11.2 above shall be placed with insurers having A.M. Best's ratings of not less than A- VII unless procured under the provisions of chapter 48.15 RCW and shall not be cancelled without thirty (30) days prior written notice to the City, except ten (10) days as respects non-payment of premium. WLAM shall provide certification of insurance, including actual copies of the policy provisions that document that the City is (1) an additional insured, mortgagee and loss payee on the all risks property insurance, and (2) an additional insured for primary and non-contributory limits of the general (premises) liability insurance.

 A copy of all insurance required herein shall be provided to the Department no later than seven (7) days after execution of this Agreement. WLAM shall also provide the City with documentation of the above insurance policies on an annual basis in conjunction with the reporting requirements set out in Section 8.

 12. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION

 If the Property, Museum, Theater and/or Meeting Facilities shall be destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty when the public, Community and Arts Groups and the City, or its designee, shall have Use Rights remaining under the Covenant and Easement granted herein, then WLAM shall restore or rebuild the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities if sufficient insurance proceeds are available, and the Use Rights granted pursuant to the Covenant and Easement shall apply to the rebuilt or restored Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities, and the Easement Term and Duration shall be extended by a period equal to the time that Use Rights under this Covenant and Easement were not available. In the alternative, if the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities are not rebuilt or restored, or if such building or restoration does not commence within 24 months of the damage or destruction, the WLAM shall pay the City liquidated damages as described in Section 18.

 13. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

 Grantor represents and warrants as follows:

 13.1 Grantor is a Washington not for profit corporation duly organized and in good standing in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington; and

 13.2 Grantor has the right, power and authority to grant the Covenant and Easement and to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement; and that all requisite actions of Grantor to enter, deliver and perform this Agreement and to authorize the execution by the person signing on behalf of Grantor (including the consent of third parties if applicable) have been taken.

 13.3 Neither the grant of Covenant and Easement, nor any provision of this Agreement and Easement is in conflict with any provision of any other agreement or instrument by which Grantor is bound or to which the Property is subject (including but not limited to any debts that are secured by the Property), nor shall the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement and the Covenant and Easement constitute an event of default under any such agreement or instrument.

 14. LEASE, RENTAL OR PERMISSION FOR USE OF FACILITY

 If the Grantor leases, rents or otherwise permits any person to use the Museum, Theater and/or Meeting Facilities in any manner whatsoever, Grantor shall remain bound by this Agreement and the Covenant and Easement and shall not be released from any of Grantor's obligations hereunder.

 15. NONDISCRIMINATION

 The WLAM will comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle, including but not limited to Chapters 14.04, 14.10, 20.42, and 20.45 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), as they may be amended; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 16. DISPUTE RESOLUTION

 In the event that any dispute(s) may arise under this Agreement, the parties shall attempt to resolve the dispute(s) through amicable negotiations between the Department and the WLAM. If such parties do not agree upon a resolution within a reasonable period of time, the parties agree to participate in a formal mediation prior to filing a lawsuit or pursuing other legal means to resolve such disputes. A professional mediator agreed upon by the parties will facilitate the mediation.

 17. TERMINATION AND DEFAULT

 17.1 The Covenant and Easement shall terminate, and all easements, covenants and obligations in it shall be of no further force or effect upon the earliest to occur of:

 (i) The expiration of the Easement Term and Duration; or

 (ii) Prior to the beginning of the Use Period, the date on which Grantee receives full reimbursement in accordance with Section 18; or

 (iii) After the beginning of the Use Period, the date on which Grantee receives full reimbursement in accordance with Section 18.

 17.2 The City may terminate this Agreement in the event that the WLAM shall have failed to perform any of the conditions of the Covenant and Easement and this Agreement. Such failure shall be considered a Default.

 If the WLAM is in Default, the City shall provide written notice to the WLAM, specifying the nature of the Default, the reasonable number of days (but not more than sixty (60) days) after the date of the notice within which such Default must be cured to avoid termination, and the City's intention to terminate this Agreement if the Default is not corrected within such stated period; provided however, if the nature of the Default is such that the Default could not be cured within such period but the WLAM shall have commenced and thereafter diligently pursued a cure within such period, the WLAM shall not be deemed to be in Default.

 17.3 In addition to or in lieu of the foregoing, the City shall be entitled to all remedies as may be permitted from time to time by the laws of the State of Washington. The City's rights and remedies hereunder are not exclusive, but cumulative, and the City's exercise of any right or remedy due to the WLAM's failure to perform any covenant or condition of this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of, or alter, affect or prejudice any other right or remedy that the City may have under this Agreement or by law or in equity.

 18. LIQUIDATED DAMAGES

 18.1 The parties understand and agree that the City's ability to obtain value from the Covenant and Easement granted is conditioned upon the renovation of the Property and the completion, opening and operation of the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities. As a result, the parties agree to liquidated damages in the amounts set forth herein with the intention that such damages will fairly measure the loss to the City and are not punitive in nature.

 18.2 In the event that the Grantor fails to open and operate the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities by 2012, WLAM agrees to pay the City liquidated damages in the amount of One Million Dollars and No One/Hundredths ($1,000,000.00), or the amount equal to the total of any purchase money already paid by the City, plus interest. Interest shall accrue from the date of any payment by the City for the purchase of the Covenant and Easement until the date of payment of these liquidated damages at the rate applied during the same period of time to the participating funds of the Consolidated Cash Portfolio of the City of Seattle. Upon receipt of the liquidated damages, this Agreement and the Covenant and Easement shall be terminated.

 18.3 Additionally, in the event the Grantor ceases to fulfill its obligations as provided in this Agreement prior to the expiration of the fifteen year Use Period of the Covenant and Easement, WLAM agrees to pay the City liquidated damages in the amount of the Sixty-Five Thousand Dollars and No One/Hundredths ($65,000.00) for each year remaining in the Use Period plus interest, accrued as described in Section 18.2. Upon receipt of liquidated damages, this Agreement and the Covenant and Easement shall be terminated. However, the City shall work with the Grantor to make reasonable accommodations should circumstances beyond the Grantor's control make it impossible for the Grantor to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement and the Covenant and Easement.

 18.4 In the event that WLAM subsequently sells or transfers the Property, and in the event that such sale or transfer results in a Default under Section 17, or in the event that liquidated damages are due and owing as of the date of sale or transfer, the parties agree that the liquidated damages will be a lien for the City's benefit upon the Property and against any purchase money received by WLAM.

 18.5 The City shall not pursue liquidated damages under this Section until it provides written notice to WLAM, specifying the nature of its failure to comply with this Agreement and the Covenant and Easement, and provide WLAM with sixty (60) days following the written notice to cure the failure.

 18.6 The liquidated damages shall apply to the circumstances in Sections 17 and 18, and do not limit or waive the City's right to pursue damages as allowed in law and equity for breach of any other sections of this Agreement.

 19. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 WLAM shall comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter, Municipal Code, and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 20. APPLICABLE LAW; VENUE

 This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in the Superior Court for King County.

 21. HEADINGS

 The headings used in this Agreement are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 22. NOTICES AND REPORTS

 Any notices or reports required or permitted hereunder shall be effective when hand delivered during normal business hours or two business days after mailed, postage prepaid, to a party at the addresses set forth below.

 City of Seattle

 Mayor's Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs

 P.O. Box 94748

 Seattle, WA 98124-4748

 Executive Director

 Wing Luke Asian Museum

 407 -7th Avenue South

 Seattle, WA 98104

 23. EXHIBITS

 The following exhibits are incorporated by reference and are made a part of this Agreement:

 Exhibit A - Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities Floor Plan

 Exhibit B - Grant of Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for the Wing Luke Asian Museum.

 24. ASSIGNMENT

 This Agreement is personal to each of the parties hereto and neither party may assign or delegate any of its rights or obligations hereunder without first obtaining the consent of the other party, except the extent that WLAM may enter a use agreement as provided in Section 5.3.2, and to the extent the City may assign its Use Rights under Section 5.2.

 25. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

 This Agreement and the exhibits attached hereto and forming a part hereof, are all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions between the parties. No verbal agreements or conversations between any officer, agent, associate or employee of the City and any officer, agency, employee or associate of the WLAM prior to the execution of this Agreement shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in this Agreement. Any such verbal agreements shall be considered unofficial information and in no way binding on either party.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement this ______ day of __________, 2006, by having their representatives affix their signatures below.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By

 Michael Killoren, Director

 Mayor's Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs

 WING LUKE ASIAN MUSEUM

 By

 Ron Chew, Executive Director

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for The City of Seattle)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ______________, , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared Michael Killoren, known to me to be the Director of the Mayor's Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in the certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 STATE OF )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for WLAM)

 COUNTY OF )

 On this _____ day of ______________, , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared Ron Chew, known to me to be the Executive Director of the WING LUKE ASIAN MUSEUM, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the day and year in this certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 Page 15 of 15 Attachment 1: Agreement Regarding Covenant and

 Easement for the Wing Luke Asian Museum

 DRAFT-3-1-04

 Exhibit B

 RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND

 WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

 GRANT OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT AND EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR THE WING LUKE ASIAN MUSEUM and MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

 GRANTOR: Wing Luke Memorial Foundation d/b/a The Wing Luke Asian Museum, a Washington non-profit corporation

 GRANTEE: The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY:

 Lots 7 and 8, Block 54, Town of Seattle, as laid out by D.S. Maynard, commonly known as D.S. Maynard's plat of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 23, in King County, Washington.

 ASSESSOR'S TAX PARCEL ID NUMBER: 524780-2715-07

 THIS GRANT OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT AND EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR THE WING LUKE ASIAN MUSEUM and MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT is executed this _____ day of ____________, 2006 by the Wing Luke Memorial Foundation d/b/a The Wing Luke Asian Museum ("GRANTOR"), in favor of The City of Seattle, its successors and assigns ("GRANTEE").

 This Grant and Memorandum are intended to give record notice that GRANTOR and GRANTEE have entered into that certain "Agreement Regarding Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for the Wing Luke Asian Museum" dated of even date herewith (the "Agreement"), the terms and conditions of which Agreement are incorporated herein by this reference, and to give record notice of the material provisions thereof as follows:

 1. Grant of Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross for the Wing Luke Asian Museum

 GRANTOR hereby grants and warrants to GRANTEE, its successors and assigns, a restrictive covenant and easement in gross to use the Wing Luke Asian Museum real property more particularly described above (the "Property"), the scope, duration and terms of which restrictive covenant and easement are more fully described in the Agreement and are described in abbreviated form below.

 2. Duration, Scope, and Terms of Restrictive Covenant

 GRANTOR covenants and promises that the Property will be used for the development, construction, renovation and operation of the Wing Luke Asian Museum, a Theater, and Community Meeting Space. The term of this restrictive use shall begin upon the day this grant is executed and shall continue until fifteen (15) full years from the first day when the Museum, Theater and Meeting Facilities are renovated and open and available for use by the City and community. This Covenant is governed further by the terms and conditions as described in the Agreement.

 3. Duration, Scope and Terms of Easement in Gross for City and Community Use and Access

 The GRANTOR grants and warrants to GRANTEE an easement in gross for community and public access to and use of the Wing Luke Asian Museum for the purposes and term more fully described in the Agreement. Such easement provides the general public, students, seniors, and community and arts groups with free or discounted use of the Property's Museum, Theater, and Meeting Facilities. Such use and access shall continue for a fifteen (15) year use period, such period to begin when the Museum and facilities are open to the public.

 The GRANTOR further grants and warrants to GRANTEE an easement in gross permitting the City to enter upon and use the Property under the terms and conditions more fully described in the Agreement. GRANTOR grants the City, or its designee, the right to use the Community Hall and/or meeting facilities free of charge three times per calendar year for a fifteen (15) year use period, such period to begin when the facilities are open and available for City use.

 4. Priority

 The GRANTEE's and the public's right to the restrictive covenant and easement in gross granted under this grant shall have priority over any and all liens, encumbrances, leases, subleases, or other interests in the burdened property. The GRANTOR shall, at its sole cost and expense, obtain any and all consents and/or subordinations of other interests in the Property, including the subordination of the rights of any mortgagees, lessees, sublessees, successors and assigns as may be necessary to assure the GRANTEE its rights under this grant and the Agreement are and remain free and clear of all liens, exceptions, encumbrances or other interests affecting the rights of the public or the rights of the GRANTEE under this restrictive covenant and easement.

 5. Burdens to run with the land.

 It is the GRANTOR'S intent that the burdens and obligations of this Restrictive Covenant and Easement in Gross and the burdens and benefits described more fully in the Agreement shall run with the land and the rights, duties, covenants, restrictions, agreements, limitations and obligations herein created shall constitute covenants running with the land, shall burden the Property, and all such easements, covenants, restrictions, agreements, limitations and obligations contained herein shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and permitted assigns of the respective parties hereto.

 Dated this _____ day of _________, 2006.

 :

 (Grantor)

 By:

 Name:

 Title:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _______________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he signed this instrument, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute the instrument as the _______________ of _______________________________, and acknowledged it to be the free and voluntary act of said ___________________________, for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 DATED: ____________________.

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at

 Print Name:

 My commission expires:

 Page 3 of 3 Exhibit B: Grant of Restrictive Covenant and Easement

 In Gross for the Wing Luke Asian Museum

```
