

********

**Council Bill Number: 115795**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122315**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to enter into two interlocal agreements to provide for the implementation of Chinook salmon conservation plans for the Lake Washington/Cedar River/Sammamish Watershed and the Green/Duwamish and Central Puget Sound Watershed.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 11, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 21, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 21, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Implementation agreements for the Water Resources Inventory Area (WRIA) 9 and WRIA 8 salmon recovery plan

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 4, 2006
   
**Committee:** Full Council
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, THREATENED-AND-ENDANGERED-SPECIES, FISH, LAKE-WASHINGTON, CEDAR-RIVER, WATERSHEDS, PUGET-SOUND, CEDAR-RIVER-WATERSHED, DUWAMISH-WATERWAY, GREEN-RIVER, SALMON

**Fiscal Note:**115795

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122315](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122315.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to enter into two interlocal agreements to provide for the implementation of Chinook salmon conservation plans for the Lake Washington/Cedar River/Sammamish Watershed and the Green/Duwamish and Central Puget Sound Watershed.

 WHEREAS, Puget Sound Chinook salmon and bull trout were listed in 1999 as Threatened Species under the federal Endangered Species Act; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle and other local governments in the Lake Washington/Cedar/Sammamish Watershed (WRIA 8) and the Green Duwamish and Central Puget Sound Watershed (WRIA 9) signed interlocal agreements with King County for shared staffing to coordinate the development of plans to promote the recovery of Chinook salmon in these watersheds; and

 WHEREAS, the recovery plans have been completed and approved by the Council and other jurisdictions in WRIA 8 and WRIA 9; and

 WHEREAS, the cooperating jurisdictions have proposed to continue shared funding of staff resources to facilitate continued jurisdictional participation in the WRIA groups to implement elements of the completed plans; and

 WHEREAS, the City's actions to improve habitat for Chinook salmon will also benefit bull trout and other aquatic and wildlife species and contribute to the quality of life for Seattle residents; and

 WHEREAS, implementing the Chinook conservation plans for WRIA 8 and WRIA 9 is consistent with other City policies such as the Restore Our Waters Initiative, the Cedar River Watershed Habitat Conservation Plan and Seattle's Urban Blueprint for Habitat Protection and Restoration; and

 WHEREAS, the implementation of the Chinook salmon conservation plans in WRIA 8 and WRIA 9 is a cornerstone to regional efforts to restore the health of Puget Sound; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, an agreement with King County substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1.

 Section 2. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, an agreement with King County substantially in the form attached hereto

 as Attachment 2.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance that is taken after passage of this ordinance but prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Interlocal Agreement for the Watershed Basins within Water Resource Inventory Area 8

 Attachment 2: Interlocal Agreement for the Green River, Duwamish River, and Central Puget Sound Watersheds (WRIA 9)

 Jean White

 SPUWRIA8/9ILAORD

 November 2, 2006

 Version #5a

 1

 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT

 For the Watershed Basins within Water Resource Inventory Area 8

 PREAMBLE

 THIS AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into pursuant to Chapter 39.34 RCW by and among the eligible county and city governments signing this agreement that are located in King and Snohomish Counties, lying wholly or partially within the management area of Watershed Resource Inventory Area ("WRIA") 8, which includes all or portions of the Lake Washington, Cedar, and Sammamish basins, all political subdivisions of the State of Washington (individually for those signing this Agreement "party" and collectively "parties"). The parties share interests in and responsibility for addressing long-term watershed planning and conservation for the watershed basins in WRIA 8 and wish to provide for funding and implementation of various activities and projects therein.

 MUTUAL CONVENANTS AND AGREEMENTS

 1. DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meaning provided for below:

 1.1. ELIGIBLE JURISDICTIONS: The governments eligible for participation in this Agreement as parties are the Counties of King and Snohomish, and the Cities of Bellevue, Bothell, Brier, Clyde Hill, Edmonds, Everett, Issaquah, Kenmore, Kent, Kirkland, Lake Forest Park, Lynnwood, Maple Valley, Medina, Mercer Island, Mill Creek, Mountlake Terrace, Mukilteo, Newcastle, Redmond, Renton, Sammamish, Seattle, Shoreline, Woodinville, and Woodway and the Towns of Beaux Arts, Hunts Point and Yarrow Point.

 1.2. WRIA 8 SALMON RECOVERY COUNCIL: The WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council created herein is the governing body responsible for implementing this Agreement and is comprised of members who are designated representatives of eligible jurisdictions who have authorized the execution of and become parties to this Agreement. In addition, the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council includes members who are not representatives of the parties and are comprised of a balance of stakeholder representatives and any other persons who are deemed by the parties to this Agreement to be appropriate for the implementation and adaptive management of the WRIA 8 Plan. The appointed representatives of parties will appoint the members who are not representing parties, using the voting provisions of Section 5 of this Agreement.

 1.3. LAKE WASHINGTON/CEDAR/SAMMAMISH WATERSHED (WRIA 8) CHINOOK SALMON CONSERVATION PLAN, JULY 2005: WRIA 8 Plan as referred to herein is the three volume document developed in partnership with stakeholder representatives and ratified by the parties to this Agreement for the purposes of preserving, protecting, and restoring habitat with the intent to recover listed species, including sustainable, genetically diverse, harvestable populations of naturally spawning Chinook salmon.

 1.4 MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: Management Committee as referred to herein consists of five (5) elected officials or their designees which elected officials are chosen by the party members of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council, according to the voting procedures in Section 5, and charged with staff oversight and administrative duties on the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council's behalf.

 1.5 SERVICE PROVIDER(S): Service Provider(s), as used herein, means that agency, government, consultant or other entity which supplies staffing or other resources to and for the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council, in exchange for payment. The Service Provider(s) may be a party to this Agreement.

 1.6 FISCAL AGENT: The Fiscal Agent refers to that agency or government who performs all accounting services for the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council, as it may require, in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 39.34 RCW.

 1.7 STAKEHOLDERS: Stakeholders refers to those public and private entities within the WRIA who reflect the diverse interests integral for planning, implementation, and adaptive management for the recovery of the listed species under the Endangered Species Act, which may include but are not limited to environmental and business interests.

 2. PURPOSES. The purposes of this Agreement include the following:

 2.1 To provide a mechanism and governance structure for the implementation and adaptive management of the implementation of the WRIA 8 Plan and to share the cost of the WRIA 8 Service Provider team to coordinate and provide the services necessary for the successful implementation and management of the WRIA 8 Plan. The maximum financial or resource obligation of any participating eligible jurisdiction under this Agreement shall be limited to its share of the cost of the Service Provider staff and associated operating costs.

 2.2 To provide a mechanism for securing technical assistance and any available funding from state agencies or other sources.

 2.3 To provide a mechanism for the implementation of other habitat, water quality and flood projects with regional, state, federal and non-profit funds as may be contributed to the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council.

 2.4 To provide a framework for cooperation and coordination among the parties on issues relating to the implementation and management of the implementation of the WRIA 8 Plan or to meet the requirement or a commitment by any party to participate in WRIA-based or watershed basin planning in response to any state or federal law which may require such participation as a condition of any funding, permitting or other program of state or federal agencies, at the discretion of such party to this Agreement.

 2.5 To develop and articulate WRIA-based positions on salmon habitat, conservation and funding to state and federal legislators.

 2.6 To provide for the ongoing participation of citizens and other stakeholders in such efforts and to ensure continued public outreach efforts to educate and garner support for current and future ESA efforts.

 It is not the purpose or intent of this Agreement to create, supplant, preempt or supersede the authority or role of any individual jurisdiction or water quality policy bodies such as the Regional Water Quality Committee.

 3. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM. This Agreement shall become effective on January 1, 2007 provided it has been signed by that date by at least nine (9) of the eligible jurisdictions within WRIA 8 representing at least seventy per cent (70%) of the affected population, as authorized by each jurisdiction's legislative body, and further provided that after such signatures this Agreement has been filed by King County and Snohomish County in accordance with the terms of RCW 39.34.040 and .200. This agreement in conjunction with the ILA Extension of 2006 reflects the ten-year timeframe of the priority actions identified in the WRIA 8 Plan Start-List. The ILA Extension of 2006 provides the mechanism and governance structure for year-one of implementation. This Agreement provides the mechanism and governance structure for the subsequent years of implementation of the Start-List Chapter of the WRIA 8 Plan. Once effective, this Agreement shall remain in effect for a term of nine (9) years; provided, however, that this Agreement may be extended for such additional terms as the parties may agree to in writing, with such extension being effective upon its execution by at least nine (9) of the eligible jurisdictions within WRIA 8 representing at least seventy per cent (70%) of the affected population,.

 4. ORGANIZATION AND NATURE OF WRIA 8 SALMON RECOVERY COUNCIL. The parties to this Agreement hereby establish a governing body for WRIA 8 and the Lake Washington-Cedar and Sammamish watershed basins and associated Puget Sound drainages (hereinafter the "WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council" the precise boundaries of which are established in Chapter 173-500 WAC, or as determined by the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council) to serve as the formal governance structure for carrying out the purposes of this Agreement in partnership with non-party members. Each party to this agreement shall appoint one (1) elected official to serve as its representative on the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council. The WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council is a voluntary association of the county and city governments located wholly or partially within the management area of WRIA 8 and the Lake Washington-Cedar and Sammamish watershed basins and associated Puget Sound drainages who choose to be parties to this Agreement. Representatives from stakeholder entities who are selected under the voting provisions of Section 5.2 of this agreement are also part of this association.

 4.1 Upon the effective execution of this agreement and the appointment of representatives to the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council, the party members of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council shall meet and choose from among its members, according to the voting provisions of Section 5, five (5) elected officials or their designees, to serve as a Management Committee to oversee and direct the funds and personnel contributed under this Agreement, in accordance with the adopted annual budget and such other directions as may be provided by the party members of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council. Representatives of the Fiscal Agent and Service Provider may serve as non-voting ex officio members thereof. The Management Committee shall act as an executive subcommittee of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council, responsible for oversight and evaluation of any Service Providers or consultants, for administration of the budget, and for providing recommendations on administrative matters to the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council for action, consistent with the other subsections of this section.

 4.1.1 It is contemplated that services to the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council for the term of this agreement shall be provided by King County Department of Natural Resources which shall be the primary Service Provider unless the party members pursuant to the voting provisions of Section 5 choose another primary Service Provider. The Management Committee shall prepare a Memorandum of Understanding to be signed by an authorized representative of King County and an authorized representative of WRIA 8, which shall set out the expectations for services to be provided. Services should include, without limitation, identification of and job descriptions for dedicated staff in increments no smaller than .5 FTE, description of any supervisory role retained by the Service Provider over any staff performing services under this Agreement, and a method of regular consultation between the Service Provider and the Management Committee concerning the performance of services hereunder.

 4.1.2 The Management Committee shall make recommendations to the party members of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council for action, including decisions related to work program, staffing and service agreements, and budget and financial operations, for each year of this Agreement. All duties of the Management Committee shall be established by the party members of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council.

 4.2 The party members of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council shall have the authority and mandate to establish and adopt the following:

 4.2.1 By September 1 of each year, establish and approve an annual budget, establishing the level of funding and total resource obligations of the parties which are to be allocated on a proportional basis based on the average of the population, assessed valuation and area attributable to each party to the Agreement, in accordance with the formula set forth in Exhibit A, which formula shall be updated every third year by the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council, as more current data become available, and in accordance with Section 2.1.

 4.2.2 Review and evaluate annually the duties to be assigned to the Management Committee hereunder and the performance of the Fiscal Agent and Service Provider(s) to this Agreement, and provide for whatever actions it deems appropriate to ensure that quality services are efficiently, effectively and responsibly delivered in the performance of the purposes of this Agreement. In evaluating the performance of any Service Provider(s), at least every three (3) years, the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council shall retain an outside consultant to perform a professional assessment of the work and services so provided. Evaluations of the Service Provider(s) shall occur in years 3, 6, and 9 of the Agreement, which correspond to years 4, 7, and 10 of the WRIA 8 Plan Start-List timeline.

 4.2.3 Oversee and administer the expenditure of budgeted funds and allocate the utilization of resources contributed by each party or obtained from other sources in accordance with an annual prioritized list of implementation and adaptive management activities within the WRIA during each year of this Agreement.

 4.3 The WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council through the primary Service Provider may contract with similar watershed forum governing bodies or any other entities for any lawful purpose related hereto, including specific functions and tasks which are initiated and led by another party to this Agreement beyond the services provided by the primary Service Provider. The parties may choose to create a separate legal or administrative entity under applicable state law, including without limitation a nonprofit corporation or general partnership, to accept private gifts, grants or financial contributions, or for any other lawful purposes.

 4.4 The party members of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council shall adopt other rules and procedures that are consistent with its purposes as stated herein and are necessary for its operation.

 5. VOTING. The party members on the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council shall make decisions, approve scope of work, budget, priorities and any other actions necessary to carry out the purposes of this Agreement as follows:

 5.1 No action or binding decision will be taken by the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council without the presence of a quorum of active party members. A quorum exists if a majority of the party members are present at the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council meeting, provided that positions left vacant on the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council by parties to this agreement shall not be included in calculating the quorum. In addition, positions will be considered vacant on the third consecutive absence and shall not be included in calculating a quorum until that time in which the party member is present. The voting procedures provided for in 5.1.1 through 5.1.2 are conditioned upon there being a quorum of the active party members present for any action or decision to be effective and binding.

 5.1.1 Decisions shall be made using a consensus model as much as possible. Each party agrees to use its best efforts and exercise good faith in consensus decision-making. Consensus may be reached by unanimous agreement of the party members at the meeting, or by a majority recommendation agreed upon by the active party members, with a minority report. Any party who does not accept a majority decision may request weighted voting as set forth below.

 5.1.2 In the event consensus cannot be achieved, as determined by rules and procedures adopted by the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council, the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council shall take action on a dual- majority basis, as follows:

 5.1.2.1 Each party, through its appointed representative, may cast its weighted vote in connection with a proposed WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council action.

 5.1.2.2 The weighted vote of each party in relation to the weighted votes of each of the other parties shall be determined by the percentage of the annual contribution by each party set in accordance with Subsection 4.2.1 in the year in which the vote is taken.

 5.1.2.3 For any action subject to weighted voting to be deemed approved, an affirmative vote must be cast by both a majority of the active party members to this Agreement and by a majority of the weighted votes of the active party members to this Agreement. No action shall be valid and binding on the parties to this Agreement until it shall receive majority of votes of both the total number of active party members to the Agreement and of the active members representing a majority of the annual budget contribution for the year in which the vote is taken. A vote of abstention shall be recorded as a "no" vote.

 5.2 The party members on the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council may deem it appropriate to appoint to the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council non- party stakeholder representatives and other persons who are appropriate for the implementation and adaptive management of the WRIA 8 Plan.

 5.2.1 Nomination of such non-party members may be made by any member of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council. Appointment to the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council of such non-party members requires either consensus or dual majority of party members as provided in Section 5.1.

 5.2.2 The party members on the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council may deem it appropriate to allow non-party members to vote on particular WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council decisions. The party members may determine which issues are appropriate for non-party voting by either consensus or majority as provided in Sections 5.1, except in the case where legislation requires non-party member votes.

 5.2.3 Decisions of the entire WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council, both party and non-party members, shall be made using a consensus model as much as possible. Voting of the entire WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council will be determined by consensus or majority as provided in Sections 5.1 and a majority of the non-party members.

 6. ADAPTIVE MANAGEMENT OF THE WRIA 8 CHINOOK SALMON CONSERVATION PLAN. The WRIA 8 Plan shall be implemented with an adaptive

 management approach. Such an approach anticipates updates and amendments to the WRIA 8 Plan. Such amendments to be effective and binding must comply with the following provisions:

 6.1 The WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council shall act to approve or remand any WRIA 8 Plan amendments prepared and recommended by the committees of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council within ninety (90) days of receipt of the plan amendments, according to the voting procedures described in Section 5.

 6.2 In the event that any amendments are not so approved, they shall be returned to the committees of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council for further consideration and amendment and thereafter returned to the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council for decision.

 6.3 After approval of the WRIA 8 Plan amendments by the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council, the plan amendments shall be referred to the parties to this Agreement for ratification prior to the submission to any federal or state agency for further action. Ratification means an affirmative action, evidenced by a resolution, motion, or ordinance of the jurisdiction's legislative body, by at least nine (9) jurisdictions within WRIA 8 representing at least seventy per cent (70%) of the total population of WRIA 8. Upon ratification, the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council shall transmit the updated WRIA 8 Plan to any state or federal agency as may be required for further action.

 6.4 In the event that any state or federal agency to which the WRIA 8 Plan or amendments thereto are submitted shall remand the WRIA 8 Plan or amendments thereto for further consideration, the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council shall conduct such further consideration and may refer the plan or amendments to the committees of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council for recommendation on amendments thereto.

 6.5 The parties agree that any amendments to the WRIA 8 Plan shall not be forwarded separately by any of them to any state or federal agency unless it has been approved and ratified as provided herein.

 7. OBLIGATIONS OF PARTIES; BUDGET; FISCAL AGENT; RULES.

 7.1 Each party shall be responsible for meeting its financial obligations hereunder as described in Section 2.1 and established in the annual budget adopted by the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council under this Agreement and described in Section 4.2.1.

 The maximum funding responsibilities imposed upon the parties during the first year of this Agreement shall not exceed the amounts set forth in Exhibit A, which shall be updated every third year as described in Section 4.2.1.

 7.2 No later than September 1 of each year of this Agreement, the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council shall adopt a budget, including its overhead and administrative costs, for the following calendar year. The budget shall propose the level of funding and other (e.g. staffing) responsibilities of the individual parties for the following calendar year and shall propose the levels of funding and resources to be allocated to specific prioritized implementation and adaptive management activities within the WRIA. The parties shall thereafter take whatever separate legislative or other actions that may be necessary to timely address such individual responsibilities under the proposed budget, and shall have done so no later than December 1st of each such year.

 7.3 Funds collected from the parties or other sources on behalf of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council shall be maintained in a special fund by King County as Fiscal Agent and as ex officio treasurer on behalf of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council pursuant to rules and procedures established and agreed to by the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council. Such rules and procedures shall set out billing practices and collection procedures and any other procedures as may be necessary to provide for its efficient administration and operation. Any party to this Agreement may inspect and review all records maintained in connection with such fund at any reasonable time.

 8. LATECOMERS. A county or city government in King or Snohomish County lying wholly or partially within the management area of WRIA 8 and the Lake Washington-Cedar and Sammamish watershed basins and adjacent Puget Sound drainages which has not become a party to this Agreement within twelve (12) months of the effective date of this Agreement may become a party only with the written consent of all the parties. The provisions of Section 5 otherwise governing decisions of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council shall not apply to Section 8. The parties and the county or city seeking to become a party shall jointly determine the terms and conditions under which the county or city may become a party. These terms and conditions shall include payment by such county or city to the parties of the amount determined jointly by the parties and the county or city to represent such county or city's fair and proportionate share of all costs associated with activities undertaken by the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council and the parties on its behalf as of the date the county or city becomes a party. Any county or city that becomes a party pursuant to this section shall thereby assume the general rights and responsibilities of all other parties to this Agreement.

 9. TERMINATION. This Agreement may be terminated by any party, as to that party only, upon sixty (60) days' written notice to the other parties. The terminating party shall remain fully responsible for meeting all of its funding and other obligations through the end of the calendar year in which such notice is given, together with any other costs that may have been incurred on behalf of such terminating party up to the effective date of such termination. This Agreement may be terminated at any time by the written agreement of all parties. It is expected that the makeup of the parties to this Agreement may change from time to time. Regardless of any such changes, the parties choosing not to exercise the right of termination shall each remain obligated to meet their respective share of the obligations of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council as reflected in the annual budget.

 10. HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION. To the extent permitted by state law, and for the limited purposes set forth in this agreement, each party shall protect, defend, hold harmless and indemnify the other parties, their officers, elected officials, agents and employees, while acting within the scope of their employment as such, from and against any and all claims (including demands, suits, penalties, liabilities, damages, costs, expenses, or losses of any kind or nature whatsoever) arising out of or in any way resulting from such party's own negligent acts or omissions related to such party's participation and obligations under this agreement. Each party agrees that its obligations under this subsection extend to any claim, demand and/or cause of action brought by or on behalf of any of its employees or agents. For this purpose, each party, by mutual negotiation, hereby waives, with respect to the other parties only, any immunity that would otherwise be available against such claims under the industrial insurance act provisions of Title 51 RCW. The provisions of this subsection shall survive and continue to be applicable to parties exercising the right of termination pursuant to Section 9.

 11. NO ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITY. In no event do the parties to this Agreement intend to assume any responsibility, risk or liability of any other party to this Agreement or otherwise with regard to any party's duties, responsibilities or liabilities under the Endangered Species Act, or any other act, statute or regulation of any local municipality or government, the State of Washington or the United States.

 12. VOLUNTARY AGREEMENT. This is a voluntary agreement and it is acknowledged and agreed that, in entering into this Agreement, no party is committing to adopt or implement any actions or recommendations that may be contained in the WRIA 8 Plan pursuant to this Agreement.

 13. NO PRECLUSION OF ACTIVITIES OR PROJECTS. Nothing herein shall preclude any one or more of the parties to this Agreement from choosing or agreeing to fund or implement any work, activities or projects associated with any of the purposes hereunder by separate agreement or action, provided that any such decision or agreement shall not impose any funding, participation or other obligation of any kind on any party to this Agreement which is not a party to such decision or agreement.

 14. NO THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. Nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to, nor shall it be construed to, create any rights in any third party, including without limitation the non-party members, NMFS, USFWS, any agency or department of the United States, or the State of Washington, or to form the basis for any liability on the part of the WRIA 8 Salmon Recovery Council or any of the parties, or their officers, elected officials, agents and employees, to any third party.

 15. AMENDMENTS. This Agreement may be amended, altered or clarified only by the unanimous consent of the parties to this Agreement, represented by affirmative action by their legislative bodies.

 16. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts.

 17. APPROVAL BY PARTIES' GOVERNING BODIES. The governing body of each party must approve this Agreement before any representative of such party may sign this Agreement.

 18. FILING OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement shall be filed by King County and Snohomish County in accordance with the provisions of RCW 39.34.040 and .200 and with the terms of Section 3 herein.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the dates indicated below:

 Approved as to form: TOWN OF BEAUX ARTS VILLAGE

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF BELLEVUE

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________

 Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF BOTHELL

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF CLYDE HILL

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF EDMONDS

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: TOWN OF HUNTS POINT

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF ISSAQUAH

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF KENMORE

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF KENT

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: KING COUNTY

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF KIRKLAND

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF LAKE FOREST PARK

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF MAPLE VALLEY

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF MEDINA

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF MERCER ISLAND

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF MILL CREEK

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF MOUNTLAKE TERRACE

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF MUKILTEO

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF NEWCASTLE

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF REDMOND

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF RENTON

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF SAMMAMISH

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF SHORELINE

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: SNOHOMISH COUNTY

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF WOODINVILLE

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________ Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________ Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: TOWN OF YARROW POINT

 By:____________________________ By:_____________________________

 Title:___________________________

 Title:____________________________

 Date:___________________________

 Attachment 1

 Average of WRIA 08 Population (Pop) Assessed Value (AV) Area Pop, AV, Area WRIA 08 Sq. Mi. Beaux Arts 273 0.0% $92,776,000 0.0% 0.08 0.0% 0.0% $137 Beaux Arts Bellevue 113,521 8.8% $21,614,400,035 10.1% 31.81 6.9% 8.6% $43,121 Bellevue Bothell 16,600 1.3% $2,383,086,200 1.1% 5.63 1.2% 1.2% $6,053 Bothell Clyde Hill 2,624 0.2% $1,163,326,000 0.5% 1.0 0.2% 0.3% $1,633 Clyde Hill Hunts Point 551 0.0% $631,691,500 0.3% 0.28 0.1% 0.1% $666 Hunts Point Issaquah 17,441 1.4% $3,930,341,856 1.8% 11.36 2.5% 1.9% $9,446 Issaquah Kenmore 19,811 1.5% $2,327,085,450 1.1% 6.11 1.3% 1.3% $6,599 Kenmore Kent 206 0.0% $30,127,800 0.0% 0.49 0.1% 0.0% $228 Kent King County (Uninc.) 170,156 13.2% $25,657,259,834 12.0% 174.29 37.8% 21.0% $105,242 King County (Uninc.) Kirkland 42,573 3.3% $7,415,403,959 3.5% 10.51 2.3% 3.0% $15,118 Kirkland Lake Forest Park 13,254 1.0% $1,752,445,211 0.8% 3.51 0.8% 0.9% $4,358 Lake Forest Park Maple Valley 2,702 0.2% $474,585,300 0.2% 1.3 0.3% 0.2% $1,192 Maple Valley Medina 2,800 0.2% $2,419,412,700 1.1% 1.41 0.3% 0.6% $2,764 Medina Mercer Island 21,055 1.6% $6,689,373,386 3.1% 6.21 1.3% 2.0% $10,204 Mercer Island Newcastle 10,965 0.9% $1,444,911,024 0.7% 4.47 1.0% 0.8% $4,169 Newcastle Redmond 48,331 3.7% $9,096,572,542 4.3% 16.25 3.5% 3.8% $19,257 Redmond Renton 42,579 3.3% $5,014,423,494 2.3% 11.28 2.4% 2.7% $13,522 Renton Sammamish 32,481 2.5% $6,148,330,366 2.9% 17.11 3.7% 3.0% $15,211 Sammamish Seattle 422,248 32.8% $75,516,155,694 35.3% 54.6 11.8% 26.6% $133,491 Seattle Shoreline 53,017 4.1% $6,738,318,837 3.2% 11.61 2.5% 3.3% $16,340 Shoreline Woodinville 10,965 0.9% $1,996,556,907 0.9% 5.66 1.2% 1.0% $5,031 Woodinville Yarrow Point 972 0.1% $589,088,300 0.3% 0.36 0.1% 0.1% $717 Yarrow Point Bothell 15,090 1.2% $2,259,238,300 1.1% 6.39 1.4% 1.2% $6,036 Bothell Edmonds 39,070 3.0% $5,934,090,139 2.8% 8.94 1.9% 2.6% $12,938 Edmonds Mill Creek 16,817 1.3% $2,274,491,533 1.1% 4.56 1.0% 1.1% $5,608 Mill Creek Mountlake Terrace 20,087 1.6% $1,903,327,160 0.9% 4.17 0.9% 1.1% $5,601 Mountlake Terrace Mukilteo 17,626 1.4% $2,880,303,500 1.3% 5.93 1.3% 1.3% $6,683 Mukilteo Sno. Co. (Uninc. 135,154 10.5% $15,419,132,162 7.2% 55.59 12.1% 9.9% $49,700 Snoh. Co. (Uninc.) Totals 1,288,969100.0% $213,796,255,189 100.0% 460.97 100.0% 100.0% $501,063 Totals

 $501,063 NOTE: King County land area excludes the Upper Cedar basin

 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT

 For the Green River, Duwamish River, and Central Puget Sound Watersheds within the geographic planning area of Water Resource Inventory Area 9 (which includes portions of Water Resource Inventory Areas 8, 10, and 15)

 PREAMBLE

 THIS AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into pursuant to Chapter 39.34 RCW by and among the eligible county and city governments signing this Agreement that are located in King County or Pierce County, lying wholly or partially within or having a major interest in the Green River, Duwamish River, and Central Puget Sound Watersheds and within the planning and management area of Watershed Resource Inventory Area 9 ,which includes portions of WRIA 8, 10, and 15, ("WRIA 9") all political subdivisions of the State of Washington ( individually, for those signing this agreement, "Party", and collectively "Parties");

 WHEREAS, the planning and management area of WRIA 9 includes all of the area recognized by the State of Washington as WRIA 9 and portions of WRIA 8, 10, and 15;

 WHEREAS, the Parties share interests in and responsibility for addressing long-term watershed planning and conservation of the aquatic ecosystems of the Green River, Duwamish River, and Central Puget Sound Watersheds and wish to collectively provide for planning, funding and implementation of various activities and projects therein; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties have participated in an Interlocal Agreement for the years 2001-2005 to develop "Making Our Watershed Fit for a King" ("Salmon Habitat Plan"), contributed to the Puget Sound Salmon Recovery Plan, and desire to continue providing efficient participation in the implementation of such plans; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties have demonstrated in the Salmon Habitat Plan that watershed ecosystem services are worth billions of dollars of value to local people in terms of stormwater management, pollution treatment, recreational value, and other expensive and difficult to replace services; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties seek information on watershed conditions and salmon conservation and recovery needs to inform local decision- making bodies regarding actions in response to listings under the Endangered Species Act ("ESA"); and

 WHEREAS, the Parties have prioritized and contributed resources and funds for implementing projects and programs to protect and restore habitat; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties wish to monitor and evaluate implementation of the Salmon Habitat Plan through adaptive management; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties wish to continue to use adaptive management for identifying, coordinating and implementing basin plans and water quality, flood hazard reduction, water quantity, and habitat projects in the watersheds; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties have a strong interest in participating on the Puget Sound Salmon Recovery Council because of the contributions of the Green River, Duwamish River, and Central Puget Sound Watersheds to the overall health of Puget Sound; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties have a strong interest in participating on the Lead Entity Advisory Group and other groups associated with the Salmon Recovery Funding Board to collectively seek funding to implement the Salmon Habitat Plan; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties have a strong interest in participating on the Puget Sound Partnership to develop recommendations to restore the Puget Sound to health and sustain that health by 2020; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties recognize that identification of watershed issues, and implementation of salmon conservation and recovery actions may be carried out more efficiently if done cooperatively than if carried out separately and independently; and

 WHEREAS, individual Parties are taking separate and independent actions to improve the health of the Green River, Duwamish River, and the Central Puget Sound Watersheds and the overall health of Puget Sound;

 NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties hereto do mutually covenant and agree as follows:

 MUTUAL CONVENANTS AND AGREEMENTS

 1. DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meaning provided for below:

 1.1 ELIGIBLE COUNTY AND CITY GOVERNMENTS: The local governments eligible for participation in this Agreement as parties are King County, and the Cities of Algona, Auburn, Black Diamond, Burien, Covington, Des Moines, Enumclaw, Federal Way, Kent, Maple Valley, Normandy Park, Renton, SeaTac, Seattle, Tacoma, Tukwila, and any newly incorporated city that lies fully or partially within the boundaries of WRIA 9.

 1.2 WRIA 9 WATERSHED FORUM: The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum created herein is the governing body responsible for implementing this Agreement. The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum is comprised of designated representatives of eligible governments who have authorized the execution of and become Parties to this Agreement.

 1.3 WRIA 9 STEERING COMMITTEE: The WRIA 9 Steering Committee referred to herein is the cooperative body comprised of a balance of stakeholder representatives and any other persons who are deemed by the Parties to this Agreement to be appropriate members for the implementation of the Salmon Habitat Plan.

 1.4 GREEN/DUWAMISH AND CENTRAL PUGET SOUND WATERSHED WATER RESOURCE INVENTORY AREA 9 SALMON HABITAT PLAN: The Green/Duwamish and Central Puget Sound Watershed Water Resource Inventory Area 9 Salmon Habitat Plan is the plan developed by the WRIA 9 Steering Committee and ratified by all of the parties to an interlocal agreement for its development. The Salmon Habitat Plan recommends actions that should be taken from 2006 through 2015 (ten years) to protect and restore salmon habitat, using an ecosystem approach, in the Green/Duwamish and Central Puget Sound Watersheds. This Salmon Habitat Plan may be amended from time to time according to the procedure in Section 6 herein and approved amendments shall be considered integral parts of the Salmon Habitat Plan. Efforts under the Salmon Habitat Plan are intended to complement habitat improvements in other parts of Puget Sound and hatchery and harvest actions to recover Puget Sound Chinook salmon and bull trout. The Salmon Habitat Plan constitutes a chapter of the Puget Sound Salmon Recovery Plan.

 1.5 MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: Management Committee as referred to herein consists of seven (7) elected officials or their designees. The seven elected officials of the Management Committee are chosen by the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum, according to the voting procedures in Section 5 herein, charged with certain oversight and administrative duties on the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum's behalf.

 1.6 SERVICE PROVIDER: Service Provider, as used herein, means that agency, government, consultant, or other entity which supplies staffing or other resources to and for the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum, in exchange for payment. The Service Provider may be a Party to this Agreement.

 1.7 FISCAL AGENT: The Fiscal Agent refers to that agency or government who performs all accounting services for the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum, as it may require, in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 39.34 RCW.

 1.8 STAKEHOLDERS: Stakeholders refers to those public and private entities within WRIA 9 who reflect the diverse interests integral to implementing the Salmon Habitat Plan, which may include but is not limited to environmental and business interests.

 2. PURPOSES. The purposes of this Agreement include the following:

 2.1 To provide a mechanism to protect and restore the ecological health of the Green/Duwamish Rivers and Central Puget Sound Watersheds.

 2.2 To provide a mechanism, through an annually agreed upon work plan, for implementing and coordinating local efforts to address issues with watershed-wide or basin implications, including but not limited to flood hazard reduction, surface and groundwater quality, water quantity, and habitat.

 2.3 To provide a mechanism and governance and funding structures for jointly implementing the Salmon Habitat Plan.

 2.4 To develop and take actions on key issues during the implementation of the Salmon Habitat Plan.

 2.5 To provide a mechanism for cooperative review and implementation of recommended policies and regulations needed for response to listings under the Endangered Species Act.

 2.6 To provide a venue for the ongoing participation of citizens and other stakeholders in salmon recovery and other watershed efforts and to ensure continued public outreach efforts to educate and garner support for current and future watershed and Endangered Species Act listed species response efforts by local governments and in accordance with the Salmon Habitat Plan.

 2.7 To provide a mechanism for securing technical assistance and any available funding from federal, state, and other sources to implement the Salmon Habitat Plan.

 2.8 To provide a mechanism for implementing other habitat, surface and groundwater quality, water quantity and flood hazard reduction projects with other local, regional, tribal, state, federal and non- profit funds as may be contributed to or secured by the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum.

 2.9 To annually recommend projects for grant funding by the King Conservation District through the King Conservation District's Forum grant program distribution.

 2.10 To annually recommend projects for implementation of planning, engineering, permitting and construction tasks for the Green/Duwamish Ecosystem Restoration Projects in partnership with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

 2.11 To provide a framework for cooperating and coordinating among the Parties on issues relating to WRIA 9 to meet the requirement of a commitment by any Party to participate in WRIA 9 planning and implementation, to prepare or implement a basin plan, or to respond to any state or federal law which may require these actions as a condition of any funding, permitting or other program of state or federal agencies. Participation is at the discretion of such Party to this Agreement.

 2.12 To provide a mechanism to approve and support, through resources, funding from grant sources or other means, implementation of restoration and protection projects and programs.

 2.13 To provide a mechanism for on-going monitoring and evaluation of the Salmon Habitat Plan implementation through adaptive management as defined in the Plan.

 It is not the purpose or intent of this Agreement to create, supplant, preempt or supersede the authority or role of any jurisdiction, governmental entity or water quality policy bodies including the Regional Water Quality Committee.

 3. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by at least five (5) of the eligible local governments within WRIA 9 representing at least seventy percent (70%) of the affected population within the geographic area of WRIA 9, as authorized by the legislative body of each local government, and further provided that after such signatures this Agreement has been filed by King County in accordance with the terms of RCW 39.34.040 and .200. Once effective, this Agreement shall remain in effect for an initial term of nine (9) years; provided, however, that this Agreement may be extended for such additional terms as the Parties may agree to in writing with such extension being effective upon its execution by at least five (5) of the eligible local governments within WRIA 9 representing at least seventy percent (70%) of the affected population within the geographic area of WRIA 9, as authorized by the legislative body of each local government, and further provided that after such signatures this Agreement has been filed by King County in accordance with the terms of RCW 39.34.040 and .200. Such extension shall bind only those Parties executing the extension.

 4. ORGANIZATION AND MEMBERSHIP OF THE WRIA 9 WATERSHED FORUM. The Parties to this Agreement hereby establish a WRIA 9 Watershed Forum to serve as the formal governance structure for carrying out the purposes of this Agreement. The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum is a voluntary association of the county and city governments located wholly or partially within the management area of or having a major interest in WRIA 9 who choose to be Parties to this Agreement.

 4.1 Each Party to this Agreement shall appoint one (1) elected official to serve as its primary representative, and one (1) alternate representative to serve on the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum. The alternate representative may be a different elected official or senior staff person.

 4.2 Upon the effective execution of this Agreement and the appointment of representatives to the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum, the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall meet and choose from among its members, according to the provisions of Section 5 herein, seven (7) officials or their designees, to serve as a Management Committee to oversee and direct the scope of work, funds, and personnel agreed to and contributed under this Agreement, in accordance with the adopted annual budget and work program and such other directions as may be provided by the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum. Representatives of the Fiscal Agent and Service Provider may serve as non-voting ex officio members of the Management Committee. The Management Committee shall act as the executive subcommittee of the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum, responsible for oversight and evaluation of any Service Providers or consultants, administration of the budget and work plan, and for providing recommendations on administrative matters to the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum for action, consistent with other subsections of this section. The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall consider new appointments or reappointments to the Management Committee every two years following its initial appointments.

 4.3 The services cost-shared under this agreement shall be provided to the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum by the Service Provider, which shall be King County Department of Natural Resources and Parks, unless selected otherwise by the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum. The Management Committee shall prepare a Memorandum of Understanding to be signed by a representative of the Service Provider, and a representative of the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum, which shall set out the expectations for services so provided. Services should include, without limitation, identification of and job descriptions for dedicated staff in increments no smaller than 0.5 Full Time Equivalent, description of any supervisory role retained by the Service Provider over any staff performing services under this Agreement, and a method of regular consultation between the Service Provider and the Management Committee concerning the performance of services hereunder.

 4.3.1 A subset of the Parties to this Agreement may purchase and cost share services from the Service Provider in addition to the annual cost-shared services agreed to by all Parties pursuant to Section 4.3 herein.

 4.3.2 The Management Committee shall prepare a Memorandum of Understanding to be signed by a representative of the Service Provider, and a representative of the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum, which shall set out the expectations for the additional services so provided to the subset of Parties to this Agreement.

 4.4 The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum, by September 1 of each year, shall establish and approve an annual budget that provides for the level of funding and total resource obligations of the Parties for the following calendar year. Such obligations are to be allocated on a proportional basis based on the average of the population, assessed valuation and area attributable to each Party to this Agreement, in accordance with the formula set forth in Exhibit A, which formula and accompanying data shall be updated by the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum when more current data become available. Tacoma's cost share will be determined on an annual basis by the Parties and will be included in the annual updates to Exhibit A. The weight accorded Tacoma's vote for weighted voting pursuant to Section 5 herein shall correspond to Tacoma's cost share for each year relative to the cost shares contributed by the other Parties.

 4.4.1 The level of funding, total resource obligations, and allocation of obligations for those members of the Parties that agree to cost share additional services pursuant to Subsection 4.3.1 herein shall be negotiated and determined by those Parties purchasing the additional services.

 4.4.2 The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall incorporate the negotiated additional cost share and incorporate the services in its annual budget and work plan.

 4.5 The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall oversee and administer the expenditure of budgeted funds and shall allocate the utilization of resources contributed by each Party or obtained from other sources in accordance with the approved annual work program.

 4.6 The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall review and evaluate the duties to be assigned to the Management Committee hereunder and the performance of the Fiscal Agent and Service Provider to this Agreement, and shall provide for whatever actions are necessary to ensure that quality services are efficiently, effectively and responsibly delivered in the performance of the purposes of this Agreement. The performance of the Service Provider shall be assessed every three years.

 4.7 The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum may contract with similar watershed forum governing bodies such as the Puget Sound Shared Salmon Strategy and Puget Sound Partnership or any other entities for any lawful purpose related to the purposes provided for in this agreement. The Parties may choose to create a separate legal or administrative entity under applicable state law, including without limitation a nonprofit corporation or general partnership, to accept private gifts, grants or financial contributions, or for any other lawful purpose consistent with the purposes provided for herein.

 4.8 The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall adopt other rules and procedures that are consistent with its purposes as stated herein and are necessary for its operation.

 5. VOTING. The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall make decisions, approve scopes of work, budgets, priorities, and any other actions necessary to carry out the purposes of this Agreement as follows:

 5.1 Decisions shall be made using a consensus model as much as possible. Each Party agrees to use its best efforts and exercise good faith in consensus decision-making. Consensus may be reached by unanimous agreement of the Parties. If unanimous agreement of members cannot be reached then the Parties to this agreement may reach consensus by a majority recommendation with a minority report. Any Party who does not accept a majority decision may request weighted voting as set forth below.

 5.2 In the event consensus cannot be achieved, as determined by rules and procedures adopted by the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum, the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall take action on a dual-majority basis, as follows:

 5.2.1 Each Party, through its appointed representative, may cast its weighted vote in connection with a proposed WRIA 9 Watershed Forum action.

 5.2.2 The weighted vote of each Party in relation to the weighted votes of each of the other Parties shall be determined by the percentage of the annual contribution made by each Party as set in accordance with Section 4.4 herein in the year in which the vote is taken.

 5.2.3 For any action subject to weighted voting to be deemed approved, valid and binding, an affirmative vote must be cast by both a majority of the Parties to this Agreement and by a majority of the weighted votes of the Parties to this Agreement. A vote of abstention shall be recorded as a "no" vote.

 6. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SALMON HABITAT PLAN. The Salmon Habitat Plan shall be implemented consistent with the following:

 6.1 The WRIA 9 Steering Committee, which shall be appointed by the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum, shall be an advisory body responsible for making recommendations for implementing the Salmon Habitat Plan to the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum, including substantive plan amendments recommended as a result of adaptive management. The WRIA 9 Steering Committee shall provide information to the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum regarding progress in achieving the goals and objectives of the Salmon Habitat Plan. Recommendations of the WRIA 9 Steering Committee are to be consistent with the purposes of this Agreement. The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum may authorize additional advisory bodies to the WRIA 9 Steering Committee, such as an adaptive management work group.

 6.2 The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall act to approve or remand any substantive changes to the Salmon Habitat Plan based upon recommendations by the WRIA 9 Steering Committee within ninety (90) days of receipt of the proposed changes, according to the voting procedures of Section 5 herein. In the event that the Salmon Habitat Plan changes are not so approved, the recommended changes shall be returned to the WRIA 9 Steering Committee for further consideration and amendment and thereafter returned to the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum for decision.

 6.3 The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall determine when ratification is needed of substantive changes to the Salmon Habitat Plan by the Parties. The changes shall be referred to the Parties for ratification prior to the submission to any regional, state, or federal agency for further action. Ratification means an affirmative action, evidenced by a resolution, motion, or ordinance of the local government's legislative body, by at least five Parties representing at least seventy percent (70%) of the total population within the geographic planning and management area of WRIA 9.

 6.4 Upon remand for consideration of any portion or all of the Salmon Habitat Plan by any regional, state or federal agency the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall undertake a review for consideration of the remanded portion or plan. The WRIA 9 Watershed Forum may include further referral to the WRIA 9 Steering Committee for recommendation or amendments thereto.

 6.5 The Parties agree that any changes to the Salmon Habitat Plan shall not be forwarded separately by any Party to any regional, state or federal agency unless the changes have been approved and ratified as provided herein.

 7. OBLIGATIONS OF PARTIES; BUDGET; FISCAL AGENT; RULES.

 7.1 Each Party shall be responsible for meeting only its individual obligations hereunder as established in the annual budget adopted by the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum under this Agreement, including all such obligations related to the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum and WRIA 9 Steering Committee funding, technical support and participation in related planning and implementation of projects, and activities as set forth herein. It is anticipated that separate actions by the legislative bodies of the Parties will be necessary from time to time in order to carry out these obligations.

 7.2 The maximum funding responsibilities imposed upon the parties during each year of this Agreement shall not exceed the amounts that are established annually pursuant to Section 4.4 herein.

 7.3 No later than September 1 of each year of this Agreement, the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall adopt a budget, including its overhead and administrative costs, for the following calendar year. The budget shall propose the level of funding and other (e.g., staffing) responsibilities of the individual parties for the following calendar year and shall propose the levels of funding and resources to be allocated to specific prioritized planning and implementation activities within WRIA 9. The Parties shall thereafter take whatever separate legislative or other actions as may be necessary to address such individual responsibilities under the proposed budget, and shall have done so no later than December 1 of each year. Parties may elect to secure grant funding to meet their individual obligations.

 7.4 Funds collected from the Parties or other sources on behalf of the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall be maintained in a special fund by King County as Fiscal Agent and as ex officio treasurer on behalf of the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum pursuant to rules and procedures established and agreed to by the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum. Such rules and procedures shall set out billing practices and collection procedures and any other procedures as may be necessary to provide for its efficient administration and operation.

 7.5 Any Party to this Agreement may inspect and review all records maintained in connection with such fund at any reasonable time.

 8. LATECOMERS. A county or city government in King County lying wholly or partially within the management area of or with a major interest in WRIA 9 which has not become a Party to this Agreement within twelve (12) months of the effective date of this Agreement may become a Party by obtaining written consent of all the Parties to the Agreement. The provisions of Section 5 herein otherwise governing decisions of the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum shall not apply to this section. The Parties of the Agreement and any governments seeking to become a Party shall jointly determine the terms and conditions under which a government may become a new Party. The terms and conditions shall include payment of an amount by the new Party to the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum. The amount of payment is determined jointly by the existing Parties of the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum and the new Party. The payment of the new Party is to be a fair and proportionate share of all costs associated with activities undertaken by the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum as of the date the government becomes a new Party. Any government that becomes a Party pursuant to this section shall thereby assume the general rights and responsibilities of all other Parties.

 9. TERMINATION.

 9.1 The obligations of any Party under this Agreement may be terminated by the Party, through action of its governing body, only upon sixty (60) days' written notice to the other Parties by not later than November 1 for termination effective January 1 of the following year. The terminating Party shall remain fully responsible for meeting all of its funding and other obligations through the end of the calendar year in which such notice is given, together with any other costs that may have been incurred on behalf of such terminating Party up to the effective date of such termination. It is expected that the makeup of the Parties to this Agreement may change from time to time. Regardless of any such changes, the Parties choosing not to exercise the right of termination shall each remain obligated to only meet their respective share of the obligations of the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum as reflected in the annual budget. The shares of any terminating Party shall not be the obligation of any of the Parties not choosing to exercise the right of termination.

 9.2 This Agreement may be terminated in its entirety at any time by the written agreement of all of the Parties.

 10. HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION. To the extent permitted by state law as to city and county governments, and federal law as governing to tribes, and for the limited purposes set forth in this Agreement, each Party shall protect, defend, hold harmless and indemnify the other Parties, their officers, elected officials, agents and employees, while acting within the scope of their employment as such, from and against any and all claims (including demands, suits, penalties, liabilities, damages, costs, expenses, or losses of any kind or nature whatsoever) arising out of or in any way resulting from such Party's own negligent acts or omissions related to such Party's participation and obligations under this Agreement. Each Party to this Agreement agrees that its obligations under this subsection extend to any claim, demand and/or cause of action brought by or on behalf of any of its employees or agents. For this purpose, each Party, by mutual negotiation, hereby waives, with respect to the other Parties only, any immunity that would otherwise be available against such claims under the industrial insurance act provisions of Title 51 RCW. In the event that either Party incurs any judgment, award, and/or cost arising therefrom, including attorneys' fees, to enforce the provisions of this Section, all such fees, expenses, and costs shall be recoverable from the responsible Party to the extent of that Party's culpability. The provisions of this Section shall survive and continue to be applicable to Parties exercising the right of termination pursuant to Section 9 herein.

 11. NO ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITY. In no event do the Parties to this Agreement intend to assume any responsibility, risk or liability of any other Party to this Agreement or otherwise with regard to any Party's duties, responsibilities or liabilities under the Endangered Species Act, or any other act, statute, regulation or ordinance of any local municipality or government, the State of Washington, or the United States.

 12. VOLUNTARY AGREEMENT. This Agreement is voluntary and is acknowledged and agreed that no Party is committing to adopt or implement any actions or recommendations that may be contained in the Salmon Habitat Plan.

 13. NO PRECLUSION OF ACTIVITIES OR PROJECTS. Nothing herein shall preclude any one or more of the Parties from choosing or agreeing to fund or implement any work, activities or projects associated with any of the purposes hereunder by separate agreement or action, provided that any such decision or agreement shall not impose any funding, participation or other obligation of any kind on any Party which is not a party to such decision or agreement.

 14. NO THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. Nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to, nor shall it be construed to, create any rights in any third party, including without limitation the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration - Fisheries, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, any agency or department of the United States, or the State of Washington, or to form the basis for any liability on the part of the WRIA 9 Watershed Forum or any of the Parties, or their officers, elected officials, agents and employees, to any third party.

 15. AMENDMENTS. This Agreement may be amended, altered or clarified only by the unanimous consent of the Parties to this Agreement, and requires authorization and approval by each Party's governing body.

 16. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts.

 17. APPROVAL BY PARTIES' GOVERNING BODIES. The governing body of each Party must approve this Agreement before any representative of such Party may sign this Agreement.

 18. FILING OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement shall be filed by King County in accordance with the provisions of RCW 39.34.040 and .200 and with the terms of Section 3 herein.

 19. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement contains the entire Agreement among the Parties, and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, oral or otherwise, regarding the specific terms of this Agreement.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the dates indicated below:

 Approved as to form: CITY OF ALGONA

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF AUBURN

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF BLACK DIAMOND

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF BURIEN

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF COVINGTON

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF DES MOINES

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF ENUMCLAW

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF FEDERAL WAY

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF KENT

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: KING COUNTY

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF MAPLE VALLEY

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF NORMANDY PARK

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF RENTON

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF SEATAC

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF TACOMA

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________ Date: ______________________

 Approved as to form: CITY OF TUKWILA

 By: ____________________ By: ______________________

 Title: ____________________ Title: ______________________

 Date: ____________________

 Attachment 2

 Average of

 Average of WRIA 09 Population (Pop) Assessed Value (AV) Area Pop, AV, Area WRIA 09

 King Co. Portion King Co. Portion

 1Algona 0.3% 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% $663 1Algona 2Auburn 5.9% 3.9% 3.8% 4.5% $16,698 2Auburn 3Black Diamond 1.1% 0.6% 1.9% 1.2% $4,354 3Black Diamond 4Burien 4.0% 4.4% 2.1% 3.5% $12,907 4Burien 5Covington 2.5% 1.7% 1.7% 2.0% $7,251 5Covington 6Des Moines 4.4% 2.6% 1.9% 3.0% $10,931 6Des Moines 7Enumclaw 1.6% 0.6% 0.6% 0.9% $3,337 7Enumclaw 8Federal Way 6.8% 4.5% 3.2% 4.9% $17,851 8Federal Way 9Kent 13.0% 10.1% 8.0% 10.4% $38,155 9Kent 10King County 26.4% 14.1% 58.9% 33.1% $121,938 10King County 11Maple Valley 2.6% 1.5% 1.2% 1.8% $6,478 11Maple Valley 12Normandy Park 1.8% 1.2% 0.7% 1.2% $4,552 12Normandy Park 13Renton 2.9% 2.9% 1.8% 2.5% $9,336 13Renton 14SeaTac 4.4% 5.5% 2.9% 4.3% $15,692 14Sea-Tac 15Seattle 19.3% 43.6% 8.6% 23.8% $87,720 15Seattle 16Tukwila 3.1% 2.7% 2.6% 2.8% $10,232 16Tukwila Sub-Total $368,058 King Co. Sub-Total

 100.0% $368,058 SUBTOTAL

 + Tacoma $16,980

 $385,038 TOTAL

 NOTE: King County land area excludes the Upper Green River basin.

```
