

********

**Council Bill Number: 115725**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122253**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the sale of Yesler/Atlantic Parcel 47; authorizing the sale of the property by public offer; authorizing the Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department to execute and deliver a Quitclaim Deed with respect to such property; designating the disposition of sales proceeds; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 25, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 3, 2006
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 2, 2006
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Capehart Project Funding

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 18, 2006
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, ATLANTIC, CENTRAL-AREA, HOUSING

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 121838

**Fiscal Note:**115725

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the sale of Yesler/Atlantic Parcel 47; authorizing the sale of the property by public offer; authorizing the Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department to execute and deliver a Quitclaim Deed with respect to such property; designating the disposition of sales proceeds; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 WHEREAS, the City purchased the property at 2010 South Jackson Street, also known as Yesler/Atlantic Parcel 47 ("Property"), as part of the Yesler/Atlantic Neighborhood Urban Renewal Project ("Project") in the early 1970s; and

 WHEREAS, in 1977, Ordinance 106797 directed the deposit of proceeds from the sale of land acquired through the Urban Renewal process, including the Property; and

 WHEREAS, in 2005, the Seattle City Council, by Ordinance 121838, transferred jurisdiction over the Property to the Fleets and Facilities Department (FFD) to facilitate disposition and redevelopment of the Property, and deposited $816,000 of City funds into the City's Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Fund; and

 WHEREAS, the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") has provided written confirmation that the transfer of jurisdiction of the Property and deposit of funds into the CDBG Fund, to be spent in accordance with CDBG regulations, may be treated by the City as the final disposition of that Property for purposes of the closeout agreement for the Project, and that therefore the Property is no longer subject to any further CDBG or federal urban renewal requirements; and

 WHEREAS, not withstanding this confirmation, the property being in a state community renewal area, the disposition of the property remains subject to the provisions of the Community Renewal Act of the state of Washington, RCW 35.81.090; and

 WHEREAS, the Community Renewal Act authorizes the disposition of the Property by a public process described in RCW 35.81.095; and

 WHEREAS, FFD, pursuant to these code sections, published a solicitation of offers for the property in November, 2005; and

 WHEREAS, FFD received multiple offers for the property and has negotiated a purchase and sale agreement with Pacific Housing NW LLC for $3,000,000, the highest offer; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council and Mayor are committed to dedicating, to the maximum extent possible, net proceeds of the Property sale to the Capehart project at Discovery Park; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department ("Director") is authorized to sell the below-described real property ("Property") to Pacific Housing NW LLC for $3,000,000, subject to the terms and conditions of the Purchase and Sale Agreement for Sale of Real Property substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, and to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a Quitclaim Deed ("Deed"[D1]):

 Lots 14 through 28, inclusive, Block 22, Hill Tract Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 8 of Plats, page 42, in King County, Washington;

 Except the South 56 feet thereof of Lots 26, 27, and 28.

 Section 2. Proceeds from the sales authorized herein shall be used first to reimburse costs incurred and paid by the Fleets and Facilities Department in connection with the sale. Pursuant to Ordinance 121838, a portion of such proceeds shall be deposited in the Emergency Subfund, any provisions in Ordinance 106797 to the contrary notwithstanding. The remaining proceeds shall be deposited into the Unrestricted Subaccount of the Cumulative Reserve Subfund. The distribution of the proceeds shall be as follows:

 Fund Amount

 Fleets and Facilities Fund (50300) $67,000

 Emergency Subfund (00185) $816,000

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund - Unrestricted Subaccount (00164) $2,117,000

 Section 3. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 Attachments: Exhibit A: Purchase and Sale Agreement for Sale of Real Property

 (Seal)

 [D1]The QCD is an attachment to the PSA, so no need to have it as a separate exhibit.

 Author's Name: Karen Tsao

 Date: August 23, 2006

 File Name: FFD Jackson & 20 Property Sale ORD

 Version #10

 3

 AMENDMENT 1

 AMENDMENT NO. 1 to PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 FOR SALE OF REAL PROPERTY

 THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT FOR SALE OF REAL PROPERTY (this "Amendment") is entered into as of __________________, 2006, between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("Seller"), a first class city of the State of Washington, and Pacific Housing NW, a Washington limited liability corporation ("Purchaser").

 Seller and Purchaser are parties to that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement dated June 7, 2006 concerning purchase and sale of the land located at 2010 South Jackson Street in Seattle, Washington (the "Purchase Agreement"). Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.

 Seller and Purchaser hereby agree as follows:

 1. DUE DILIGENCE PERIOD. Section 4.3 of the Purchase Agreement shall be amended to extend the expiration date of the Due Diligence Period to July 12, 2006.

 3. COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by facsimile and all counterparts shall be deemed to constitute a single agreement. The execution and delivery of one counterpart by any party shall have the same force and effect as if that party had signed all other counterparts. The signatures to this Agreement may be executed on separate pages and when attached to this Agreement shall constitute one complete document.

 4. NO OTHER AMENDMENTS. Except as modified by this Amendment, the Purchase Agreement remains in full force and effect and has not been modified or amended.

 SELLER:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: _______________________________________

 Brenda Bauer

 Director, Fleets and Facilities Department

 PURCHASER:

 PACIFIC HOUSING NW

 a Washington limited liability company

 By: ________________________________________

 Timothy P. Abell

 Managing Member

 Exhibit A1

 Exhibit A2

 AMENDMENT NO. 2 to PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 FOR SALE OF REAL PROPERTY

 THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT FOR SALE OF REAL PROPERTY (this "Amendment") is entered into as of __________________, 2006, between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("Seller"), a first class city of the State of Washington, and Pacific Housing NW, a Washington limited liability corporation ("Purchaser").

 Seller and Purchaser are parties to that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement dated June 7, 2006 and amended June 29, 2006 concerning purchase and sale of the land located at 2010 South Jackson Street in Seattle, Washington (the "Purchase Agreement"). Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.

 Seller and Purchaser hereby agree as follows:

 1. DUE DILIGENCE PERIOD. Section 4.3 of the Purchase Agreement shall be amended to extend the expiration date of the Due Diligence Period to July 17, 2006.

 2. COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by facsimile and all counterparts shall be deemed to constitute a single agreement. The execution and delivery of one counterpart by any party shall have the same force and effect as if that party had signed all other counterparts. The signatures to this Agreement may be executed on separate pages and when attached to this Agreement shall constitute one complete document.

 3. NO OTHER AMENDMENTS. All provisions of the Purchase Agreement not modified by this Amendment remain in full force and effect.

 SELLER:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: _______________________________________

 Brenda Bauer

 Director, Fleets and Facilities Department

 PURCHASER:

 PACIFIC HOUSING NW

 a Washington limited liability company

 By: ________________________________________

 Timothy P. Abell

 Managing Member

 ATTACHMENT 3

 AMENDMENT NO. 3 to PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 FOR SALE OF REAL PROPERTY

 THIS AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT FOR SALE OF REAL PROPERTY (this "Amendment") is entered into as of __________________, 2006, between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("Seller"), a first class city of the State of Washington, and Pacific Housing NW, a Washington limited liability corporation ("Purchaser").

 A. Seller and Purchaser are parties to that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement dated June 7, 2006 and amended June 29, 2006, and July 12, 2006, concerning purchase and sale of the land located at 2010 South Jackson Street in Seattle, Washington (the "Purchase Agreement"). Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.

 B. According to an environmental soil sampling report prepared by G-Logics, Inc. (the "Consultant") dated June 30, 2006 (the "Report"), the Property contains certain potential Hazardous Substances. It is currently believed that such Hazardous Substances exist between approximately 100 feet to 135 feet west of the eastern boundary of the Property and from the southern boundary to approximately 40 feet north of the southern boundary of the Property (the "Identified Area"). The Identified Area is depicted on Exhibit A to this Amendment.

 Seller and Purchaser hereby agree to amend the Purchase Agreement as follows:

 1.Environmental Remediation Work. Purchaser and Purchaser's agents, consultants and contractors shall have the right to enter onto the Property and excavate contaminated soil from the Identified Area in accordance Consultant's July 11, 2006, Site Remediation Workplan ("Workplan"), which Workplan is attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by reference (the "Remediation Work"). For the purpose of facilitating the rights granted in the preceding sentence, Seller hereby grants and conveys to Purchaser a temporary non-exclusive license over, across and under the Property. Purchaser will give Seller at least seven (7) days' notice before entering the Property for Remediation Work. Purchaser and Seller agree to coordinate with one another to minimize the interruption or disturbance to the activities of either, or their agents, consultants and contractors. If Purchaser discovers any contaminated soil outside the Identified Area, it will promptly notify Seller. Either Purchaser or Seller may cease the Remediation Work, upon written notice, if (a) contaminated soil is discovered outside the Identified Area and/or (b) Consultant reasonably determines that the estimated total cost of the Remediation Work (inclusive of all hard and soft costs) exceeds $40,000. If the Remediation Work is terminated, then Purchaser shall cause the Property to be restored as described on page 4 of the Workplan, the Earnest Money shall be returned to Purchaser within five (5) business days after Consultant notifies the parties that such Restoration Work is complete, and all rights and obligations of the parties under the Purchase Agreement shall be extinguished except those specifically identified as surviving termination.

 2. Workmanship. Purchaser agrees to perform all Remediation Work in a neat and workmanlike manner using a contractor reasonably acceptable to Seller. All grading, site improvement work or construction upon the Property shall include adequate provisions to handle surface water and other drainage issues. All work will be performed in such a manner as not to cause damage to neighboring properties and to preserve lateral support for adjoining properties. Purchaser's contractor shall maintain at all times during the Remediation Work insurance as described in Exhibit C hereto, naming the City as an additional insured and shall obtain a payment and performance bond in the full amount of the work naming Seller as a co-obligee.

 3. Compliance with Laws. Purchaser and Purchaser's agents, consultants and contractors shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations now or hereafter enacted or promulgated when engaging in the Remediation Work on the Property.

 4. Lien-Free Completion. Purchaser shall promptly pay all sums owed to contractors, subcontractors, materialmen, suppliers, engineers, architects and any cost or expense arising out of the Remediation Work.

 5. Indemnity. Purchaser shall indemnify, defend and hold Seller harmless from and against any and all costs, damages, liabilities, claims (including construction liens) and, expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs) that arise out of the Remediation Work or the entry of Purchaser or Purchaser's agents, consultants and contractors onto the Property pursuant to this Agreement, except this indemnity shall not extend to those matters arising out of the presence of Hazardous Substances on the Property prior to this Agreement or Seller's negligence or intentional misconduct.

 6.Cost of Remediation. Seller agrees to contribute up to $10,000 towards the "soft costs" for the Remediation Work or any restoration work, if the Purchase Agreement is terminated, including soil remediation treatment, the additional cost of transport, re-testing of the Identified Area, and monitoring of soil removal by an environmental consultant, but not including the costs of Purchaser's initial investigations. Purchaser shall bear all soft costs in excess of $10,000 and all other costs incurred in carrying out the Remediation Work or any restoration work. The Purchaser shall deduct the Seller's share of the cost of remediation from the Purchase Price at closing. The Purchaser shall submit a remediation plan and cost estimate to the Seller for approval prior to performing the remediation.

 7. Waiver of Due Diligence Conditions. This Amendment constitutes Purchaser's Due Diligence Notice under Section 4.3 of the Purchase Agreement and Purchaser hereby waives its due diligence contingency contained in Section 4.3 of the Purchase Agreement. Unless the Purchase Agreement is terminated in accordance with Section 1, above, or this Section 7, Purchaser shall diligently seek to determine and apply for all permits necessary to conduct the Remediation Work and shall cause the Remediation Work to be commenced promptly upon the receipt of all required permits and diligently pursued until it is completed as provided herein. If the Remediation Work is not completed on or before October 23, 2006 (the "Completion Date"), then the Purchase Agreement shall terminate, the Earnest Money deposit shall be paid to Seller as described in Section 8 of the Purchase Agreement, and Purchaser shall cause the Property to be restored as described in Section 1, above, at Purchaser's expense except for Seller's contribution described in Section 6. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Purchaser has submitted a complete application for a grading permit and the Seattle Department of Planning and Development has not approved the grading permit by September 23, 2006, the parties agree to extend the Completion Date by the number of days between September 23, 2006, and the date the grading permit is available for issuance. In addition, in the event Purchaser has diligently and in good faith pursued completion of the Remediation Work by the above deadline, but has been prevented from completing the Remediation Work for reasons beyond Purchaser's reasonable control (such as, but not by way of limitation, severe weather conditions), the above deadline shall be extended for a reasonable time sufficient to allow Purchaser to diligently complete the Remediation Work. Consultant shall determine when the Remediation Work is complete, and such determination shall be conclusive as between Purchaser and Seller.

 8. CITY APPROVAL; SELLER DEFAULT. Section 7.1.2 and 11.1.1 of the Purchase Agreement are amended to provide that, in the event the Purchase Agreement is terminated or Seller is otherwise in default under the Purchase Agreement, Purchaser shall be entitled to recover from Seller, in addition to all amounts described in such sections, all hard and soft costs incurred by Purchaser in the performance of the Remediation Work prior to such event.

 9. COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by facsimile and all counterparts shall be deemed to constitute a single agreement. The execution and delivery of one counterpart by any party shall have the same force and effect as if that party had signed all other counterparts. The signatures to this Agreement may be executed on separate pages and when attached to this Agreement shall constitute one complete document.

 9. NO OTHER AMENDMENTS. All provisions of the Purchase Agreement not modified by this Amendment remain in full force and effect.

 SELLER:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: _______________________________________

 Brenda Bauer

 Director, Fleets and Facilities Department

 PURCHASER:

 PACIFIC HOUSING NW

 a Washington limited liability company

 By: ________________________________________

 Timothy P. Abell

 Manager

 EXHIBIT C Exhibit A3c

 Exhibit C (Insurance) for Amendment No. 3 to

 Purchase and Sale Agreement

 Purchaser's prime contractor for the Remediation Work shall maintain the following insurance in force at all times while engaged in such Remediation Work:

 1. MINIMUM COVERAGES AND LIMITS OF LIABILITY

 A. Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance, including Stop Gap/Employer's Liability, with limits of liability of not less than $1,000,000 each occurrence bodily injury and property damage combined single limit (CSL).

 B. General Contractor's Pollution Legal liability (GCPL) covering:

 (1) Sudden and gradual pollution conditions arising from covered operations performed by or on behalf of the prime contractor,

 (2) Third-party bodily injury and property damage, clean-up costs and defense expenses, and

 (3) Vicarious liability for pollution conditions arising from subcontracted operations

 with limits of liability of not less than $1,000,000 each claim.

 C. Commercial Auto Liability insurance, including CA 99 48 and MCS-90 endorsements, with limits of liability of not less than $1,000,000 CSL.

 D. Workers Compensation in compliance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington.

 Coverage may be evidenced by the prime contractor or its subcontractors of any tier, provided that the insurance meets the requirements herein.

 2. TERMS AND CONDITIONS (NOT APPLICABLE TO TITLE 51 WORKERS COMPENSATION)

 A. Each Insurer must either be (1) authorized to do business in the state of Washington and maintain A.M. Best's ratings of A-: VII or higher, or (2) procured as surplus lines under the provisions of chapter 48.15 RCW ("Unauthorized Insurers").

 B. The prime contractor shall keep this insurance in force during the term of the contract and for thirty (30) days after completion or cessation of the remediation Work.

 C. The liability insurance policies shall include the City of Seattle as an additional insured for primary and non-contributory limits of liability and a cross liability provision.

 D. Insurance shall include a requirement providing for a minimum of thirty (30) days prior written notice to the Seller of any cancellation in any insurance policy, except a minimum of ten (10) days as respects cancellation for non-payment.

 E. Failure on the part of the Purchaser to cause the prime contractor to maintain the insurance as required shall constitute a material breach of contract, upon which the Seller may, after giving five (5) business days notice to the Purchaser to correct the breach, immediately terminate the contract.

 F. Any prime contractor self-insured retention (S.I.R.) in excess of $25,000 must be disclosed and is subject to Seller's approval. The cost of any claims payments for defense and indemnity falling within the deductible shall be the responsibility of the Contractor.

 3. EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE

 The Purchaser shall cause the prime contractor to deliver to the Seller certification of insurance meeting the requirements set forth and the certification of insurance must include the following:

 A. An ACORD certificate or equivalent form fully disclosing all coverages and limits of liability maintained.

 B. A copy of the additional insured endorsement or blanket additional insured language to the CGL and GCPL insurance documenting that the City of Seattle is an additional insured for primary and non- contributory limits off liability. A statement of additional insured status on an ACORD or other form of certificate of insurance will not satisfy this requirement.

 No Remediation Work shall be undertaken under this Amendment until the required insurance has been obtained and approved by the Seller.

 EXHIBIT 4 - AMENDMENT 4 AMENDMENT NO. 4 to PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 FOR SALE OF REAL PROPERTY

 THIS AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT FOR SALE OF REAL PROPERTY (this "Amendment") is entered into as of August 31, 2006, between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("Seller"), a first class city of the State of Washington, and Pacific Housing NW, LLC, a Washington limited liability corporation ("Purchaser").

 Seller and Purchaser are parties to that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement dated June 7, 2006 and amended June 29, 2006, July 12, 2006, and July 24, 2006 concerning purchase and sale of the land located at 2010 South Jackson Street in Seattle, Washington (the "Purchase Agreement"). Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.

 For good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Seller and Purchaser hereby agree to amend the Purchase Agreement as follows:

 1. The Closing shall be no later than November 16, 2006 provided, however if the remediation has not been completed for reasonable cause the Closing shall be extended for a period reasonably necessary to complete such remediation.

 2. Paragraph 6 of Amendment 3, Cost of Remediation, shall be amended to read "Seller agrees to contribute up to $10,000 towards the "soft costs" for the Remediation Work or any restoration work, if the Purchase Agreement is terminated, including without limitation preparation of permit materials by geotechnical and environmental consultants for shoring and grading permits, permit fees, monitoring of soil conditions and removal by geotechnical and environmental consultants, re-testing of the Identified Area, and other related consultant services but not including the costs of Purchaser's initial investigations. Purchaser shall bear all soft costs in excess of $10,000 and all other costs incurred in carrying out the Remediation Work or any restoration work. The Purchaser shall deduct the Seller's share of the cost of remediation from the Purchase Price at closing. The Purchaser shall submit a remediation plan and cost estimate to the Seller for approval prior to performing the remediation."

 3. City's Option to Repurchase Property. In order to ensure timely redevelopment of the Property, Purchaser hereby grants Seller the option to repurchase the Property from the Purchaser or its successors and assigns, which option may be exercised by Seller only if Purchaser has not applied for a Master Use Permit within four (4) years following the Closing of the transaction (the "Option Exercise Date"). The Seller shall notify the Purchaser in writing of its intent to exercise its option to repurchase the Property no later than 60 days after the Option Exercise Date. The option shall terminate immediately upon the application for a Master Use Permit by Purchaser or its successors and assigns. The Seller shall extend the Option Exercise Date at the request of the Purchaser upon the Purchaser demonstrating reasonable cause. The purchase price for any such repurchase shall be at the fair market value of the Property at the time of repurchase as determined by a third party appraiser acceptable to both parties, within 30 days after the exercise of the option. The closing of such repurchase shall occur not later than 30 days after the exercise of the Seller's option and the purchase price shall be paid in cash at closing. Upon such closing, Purchaser shall deliver to Seller a quit claim deed and shall make no further representations or warranties with respect to the condition of the Property.

 4. COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by facsimile and all counterparts shall be deemed to constitute a single agreement. The execution and delivery of one counterpart by any party shall have the same force and effect as if that party had signed all other counterparts. The signatures to this Agreement may be executed on separate pages and when attached to this Agreement shall constitute one complete document.

 5. NO OTHER AMENDMENTS. All provisions of the Purchase Agreement not modified by this Amendment remain in full force and effect.

 SELLER:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: _______________________________________

 Brenda Bauer

 Director, Fleets and Facilities Department

 PURCHASER:

 PACIFIC HOUSING NW, LLC

 a Washington limited liability company

 By: ________________________________________

 Timothy P. Abell

 Manager

 Exhibit A

 PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 FOR SALE OF REAL PROPERTY

 THIS AGREEMENT is entered into as of __________________, 2006, between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("Seller"), a first class city of the State of Washington, and Pacific Housing NW, a Washington limited liability corporation ("Purchaser").

 In consideration of the payment and receipt of the Purchase Price in exchange for the Property, and in reliance on the parties' mutual promises and undertakings and the mutual benefits to be derived from the promises contained in this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:

 1. PROPERTY AND INTERESTS

 Seller owns the real property and improvements described on Exhibit A and depicted on the site map as Exhibit B (the "Property") and has determined the Property is no longer needed for public use.

 2. SALE OF PROPERTY.

 Subject to the terms of this Agreement and upon execution by the duly authorized representatives of Purchaser and Seller, and upon payment of the Purchase Price defined in Section 3 of this Agreement and City Approval (as defined in Subsection 7.1.1 below), Seller shall convey the Property to Purchaser on the Closing Date.

 3. PURCHASE PRICE.

 3.1 Purchase Price. The total purchase price for the Property ("Purchase Price") is THREE MILLION Dollars ($3,000,000.00). The Purchase Price, less the Earnest Money and all accrued interest, shall be paid in cash at Closing.

 3.2 Earnest Money. Following execution of this Agreement, Seller shall open an escrow account at the downtown Seattle office of Chicago Title Insurance Company, 701 5th Avenue, Suite 1800 ("Escrow Agent"), in order to consummate the sale and purchase of the Property. Within five (5) business days after execution, Purchaser shall deliver to Escrow Agent Ernest Money in the form of a Promissory Note in an amount equal to ONE HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND Dollars ($150,000.00) (the "Promissory Note") which Purchaser shall replace with cash of an equal amount within five (5) business days following delivery of the Due Diligence Notice pursuant to Section 4.3, affirming Purchaser's intent to proceed to Closing. Escrow Agent shall deposit the Earnest Money in an interest-bearing account and, together with all accrued interest thereon, apply it to the Purchase Price at Closing, unless forfeited or refunded to Purchaser as provided elsewhere in this Agreement.

 4. TITLE, SURVEY, AND INSPECTIONS.

 4.1 Title. Closing shall be conditioned upon Chicago Title Insurance Company ("Title Company") issuing or committing to issue to Purchaser an extended coverage ALTA owner's policy of title insurance in the amount of the Purchase Price (the "Title Policy"). Purchaser acknowledges that Seller has provided it with a copy of the Commitment for Title Insurance from Chicago Title Insurance Company dated November 29, 2005, and issued under order no. 1167022 (the "Preliminary Report") and represents that the same contain no objectionable matters. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided herein, Seller shall be obligated to remove from title prior to the Closing (a) any delinquent taxes and assessments, (b) any Monetary Liens (other than any mechanics, materialmen's and broker liens for which Purchaser is responsible under the terms of this Agreement), and (c) any exceptions caused by Seller's voluntary acts after the execution date of this Agreement and not approved by Purchaser hereunder. Title shall be conveyed by quitclaim deed.

 4.2 Cost of Title Report. If this Agreement is terminated without Closing due to Purchaser's default, Purchaser shall bear all costs of the title insurance contemplated by this Agreement. If the transaction terminates due to Seller's default Seller shall bear the costs of title insurance. If the Agreement terminates without Closing through no fault of either party, then the costs of title insurance shall be allocated as provided in Subsection 10.4.

 4.3 Due Diligence Period. Purchaser shall have the right to commence Purchaser's due diligence investigations with respect to the Property following the execution of this Agreement. The due diligence period ("Due Diligence Period") shall commence on the date Purchaser executes this Agreement and shall expire on the 30th day thereafter. Prior to the end of the Due Diligence Period, Purchaser shall deliver written notice to Seller (the "Due Diligence Notice") informing Seller whether or not Purchaser intends to proceed with the purchase of the Property. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, Purchaser shall have the right to terminate this Agreement at any time prior to the end of the Due Diligence Period, in its sole and absolute discretion and for any or for no reason whatsoever. If, by the end of the Due Diligence Period, Purchaser shall not have delivered the Due Diligence notice to Seller, then this Agreement shall automatically terminate, the Earnest Money deposit shall be immediately returned to Purchaser, and neither party shall have any further obligations hereunder except to the extent set forth in Sections 4 and 14 hereof.

 4.4 License for Entry onto Property for Inspection, Study and Survey Purposes; Documents. In general, as it applies to this Section and its subsections, Purchaser shall exercise its rights granted herein at all times in such a manner as shall not result in the Property becoming subject to any lien arising out of Purchaser's exercise of rights. Any lien arising out of Purchaser's conduct of any right granted under this Agreement shall be removed immediately and at Purchaser's expense.

 4.4.1 License. Seller grants to Purchaser and its agents, a license to enter the Property during the Due Diligence Period upon prior notice to Seller, who shall arrange such access as Purchaser shall reasonably require, for the purpose of conducting any investigation, inspection, analysis, study or survey of the Property. The time, place and manner of inspection shall be fully described to Seller prior to entry and no investigation, inspection, analysis, study or survey shall be made which has not been approved in advance by Seller or which unreasonably disturbs the Seller's use and enjoyment of the Property. Seller shall not unreasonably withhold approval and shall endeavor to make access to the Property available for inspections. In general, all investigations or studies occurring on the Property shall comply with the requirements of this Subsection 4.4., be conducted in a manner consistent with best practices of the industry, and shall not expose any person to any condition potentially hazardous to that person's health. In the event that any accidental discharge or exposure of a hazardous condition should occur, Purchaser and its agents shall promptly take all steps reasonably calculated to minimize the effect of such exposure, and protect life, health and property and shall promptly notify the Seller. Purchaser shall promptly provide copies of any surveys, reports, analyses, etc., to Seller. The license granted in this section shall expire on the date of Closing or the date this Agreement is terminated, whichever is earlier.

 (i) Any environmental study which Purchaser elects to undertake which requires invasive or destructive testing may be performed upon 3 business days' prior notice to Seller and upon proof of insurance adequate to the risk of damage or loss occurring during the testing to cover the cost of repair necessitated by such testing on the Property or any adjacent property owned by Seller.

 (ii) Any invasive or destructive testing shall be conducted at an agreed time, and in a manner intended to minimize disruption to the Seller's use of the property. In the event that this Agreement terminates without Closing, Purchaser covenants and agrees to repair any damage to the Property occasioned by the Purchaser's entry upon the Property or the conduct of any inspection, study or survey by or for Purchaser; provided however that Purchaser shall not be required to correct any conditions of the Property related to the presence of Hazardous Materials. Such repair shall be to the condition in which the Property existed immediately prior to Purchaser's initial entry upon the Property pursuant to the license granted herein or to industry standards.

 4.4.2 Environmental Reports. Within five (5) business days of the full execution of this Agreement, Seller shall furnish Purchaser with copies of all environmental reports or hazardous materials abatement reports, and all other information in the possession of Seller that reflect conditions on the Property, including environmental conditions, or the potential for same, and that pertain to the condition and/or any present or potential development and/or use of the Property. If the transaction fails to close, the Purchaser shall return all such reports to the Seller.

 4.4.3 Seller's Cooperation. Seller agrees that Seller and its employees will cooperate with Purchaser during Purchaser's investigation and survey and provide such access to the Property and such information about the Property as Purchaser shall reasonably require. In addition, Seller agrees that within five (5) business days after full execution of this Agreement, Seller shall provide to Purchaser a complete copy of the following to the extent they are in Seller's possession, custody or control: information relating to any proposal or commitment by Seller to alter existing improvements or structures or construct additional improvements or structures, or to dedicate any portion of the Property to any governmental entity; and all other reports, records, diagrams, photographs, maps or other Documents relating to the Property, as listed at Exhibit C attached hereto or that in Seller's possession.

 4.5 Indemnity. Purchaser shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from any claims, costs (including attorney's fees), loss, liability and damage whatsoever incurred as a result of Purchaser's entry upon the Property and conduct of the inspection, study or survey or any other activity on the Property by or on behalf of the Purchaser in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser's repair, defense and indemnification obligations under this section shall not extend to the correction of or liability with respect to any preexisting condition on, under or about the Property.

 5. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES.

 5.1 Purchaser's Warranties. Purchaser represents and warrants as follows:

 5.1.1 Purchaser is a limited liability corporation duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Washington.

 5.1.2 Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that the Property is being sold AS IS, WHERE IS, and that Seller makes no warranties or representations concerning the condition of the Property, except as specifically set forth in this Agreement, or its suitability for Purchaser's purposes.

 5.1.3 The representations and warranties made by Purchaser in this Agreement are true on and as of the date of Closing as though such representations and warranties had been made on and as of the date of Closing. Purchaser's representations set forth in this Subsection 5.1 shall survive Closing as set forth in Section 24 (Survival).

 5.2 Seller's Warranties. Seller represents and warrants as follows:

 5.2.1 Seller is a municipal corporation duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Washington. Seller warrants that the Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department is authorized on behalf of the Seller to execute this Agreement, subject to the approval of this Agreement by ordinance adopted by the Seattle City Council and signed by the Mayor of Seattle.

 5.2.2 Seller is aware of no condition on or affecting the title to the Property, including but not limited to any material defect or material adverse fact relating to the Property, which will not be reflected as a matter of record title and will not be disclosed to Purchaser at the time Seller provides Purchaser the Documents listed in Exhibit C.

 5.2.3 Seller is the owner of the Property. Seller has reviewed the Preliminary Report and the Second and Third Commitments issued by the Title Company and will review any and all subsequent Title Commitments that the Title Company may issue. At Closing, Seller will warrant that there are no claims affecting title to the Property, other than those disclosed by the Title Commitment as of Closing.

 5.2.4 To Seller's knowledge, other than as disclosed in the Documents provided by Seller to Purchaser, there are no Hazardous Materials (as defined in Section 22 hereof) on or in the Property. If any additional Hazardous Material is discovered by Purchaser on the Property prior to Closing, Purchaser shall have the right to terminate this Agreement. If Purchaser does not terminate this Agreement and the Closing occurs or, if any Hazardous Materials are discovered on or in the Property after Closing, then subject to the first sentence of this Subsection, the Purchaser shall have no right to recover from Seller damages resulting from such Hazardous Materials. Purchaser shall have no obligation to indemnify Seller against any claims by third parties, including regulatory agencies, arising from Hazardous Materials that existed on the Property prior to Closing. Except as otherwise provided in this Subsection 5.2.4, the Property is being sold AS IS, WHERE IS, and Seller makes no warranties or representations concerning the condition of the Property or its suitability for Purchaser's purposes.

 5.2.5 To the best of Seller's knowledge, there is no claim, litigation, proceeding or governmental investigation pending or threatened against or relating to the Property, or the transaction contemplated by this Agreement, or any dispute arising out of any contract or commitment entered into regarding the Property, nor is there any basis known to Seller for any such action.

 5.2.6 To the best of Seller's knowledge here are no covenants, conditions, restrictions, or contractual obligations of Seller that will adversely affect Buyer's ownership of the Property after Closing or prevent Seller from performing its obligations under the Agreement, except as disclosed in the Title Report.

 6. PURCHASER'S CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO CLOSING

 6.1. Purchaser shall be obligated to complete this transaction upon the following conditions:

 6.1.1 Seller is able to convey title to the Property;

 6.1.2 The Title Company is able to issue to Purchaser the Title Policy; and

 6.1.3 City Approval has been obtained by Seller, and Purchaser has approved in its discretion any terms and conditions imposed by the Mayor and/or the City Council.

 6.1.4 Purchaser has notified Seller that it is satisfied with the Property or waived its due diligence contingency.

 6.1.5 The representations and warranties made by Seller in this Agreement are true on the date hereof and shall be true as of the date of Closing with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on and as of the date of Closing.

 7. SELLER'S CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO CLOSING

 7.1 Seller shall be obligated to complete this transaction upon the following conditions:

 7.1.1 The Purchaser has notified the Seller that it is satisfied with the Property or waived its due diligence by the end of the Due Diligence Period; and

 7.1.2 The City Council of the City of Seattle has approved this Agreement by ordinance acceptable in form and substance to Purchaser ("Ordinance"), which Ordinance has become effective as provided by law (the effective date of said Ordinance shall hereinafter be referred to as "City Approval"). If City Approval has not been obtained by that date which is one hundred and twenty (120) days after the expiration of the Due Diligence Period, then, unless this Agreement is extended by the signed agreement of both parties, this Agreement shall immediately terminate and the Earnest Money, together with interest accrued thereon, shall be returned to Purchaser within three (3) days after delivery to Seller and Escrow Agent of Purchaser's notice of such termination. In addition, Purchaser shall be entitled to recover the documented actual costs of survey and geotechnical investigations pursuant to Section 4.4.1, up to a maximum amount of TEN THOUSAND Dollars ($10,000.00).

 7.1.3 Purchaser shall have complied with all its obligations under this Agreement.

 7.1.4 The representations and warranties made by Purchaser in this Agreement are true on and as of the date of Closing with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on and as of the date of Closing.

 8. TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT

 If, due to Seller's fault, the sale of the Property fails to close after Purchaser has provided Seller with notice of intent to proceed as described in subsection 4.3, then this Agreement shall automatically terminate and Escrow Agent shall release the Earnest Money, together with all accrued interest thereon, to Purchaser within five (5) business days after Purchaser notifies Escrow Agent of such termination, which Earnest Money return shall be Purchaser's sole remedy, except for recovery documented actual costs as described in Section 11.1.1. If, due to Purchaser's fault, the Property fails to close after the Purchaser has provided Seller notice of intent to proceed as described in subsection 4.3, then this Agreement shall automatically terminate and Escrow Agent shall release the Earnest Money, together with all accrued interest thereon, to Seller within five (5) business days, as Seller's sole remedy.

 9. ESCROW INSTRUCTIONS AND CLOSING

 9.1 Escrow Instructions. The provisions of this Agreement shall constitute the joint instructions of the parties to the Escrow Agent; provided, however, that the parties may provide additional instructions to the Escrow Agent as mutually agreed and not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.

 9.2 Date of Closing. The Closing shall occur no later than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the Due Diligence Period ("Closing"), or no more than ten (10) days following City Approval (as defined in 7.1.1), whichever is the later event to occur. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if City Approval does not occur on or before ninety (90) days after the expiration of the Due Diligence period then Purchaser, at its sole discretion, may terminate this Agreement whereupon the Escrow Agent shall return the Earnest Money, together with all interest accrued thereon, to Purchaser within three (3) business days after Purchaser delivers notice of termination to Seller and Escrow Agent.

 9.3 Purchaser's Closing Obligations & Instruments. At Closing, Purchaser shall deliver to Seller through the Escrow Agent:

 9.3.1 by certified or cashier's check or wire transfer, the Purchase Price, less the Earnest Money deposit and all interest earned thereon, adjusted and prorated as provided in this Agreement; and

 9.3.2 such other instruments as are reasonably necessary to consummate this purchase and sale transaction.

 9.4 Seller's Closing Obligations & Instruments. At Closing, Seller shall deliver to Purchaser through the Escrow Agent:

 9.4.1 a fully executed and acknowledged quitclaim deed in the form of Exhibit D hereto; and

 9.4.2 such other instruments as are reasonably necessary to consummate this purchase and sale transaction.

 10. ESCROW AGENT'S OBLIGATIONS

 10.1 The Escrow Agent shall receive, hold and disburse all funds, arrange the execution, delivery and recording of all instruments necessary to this transaction and shall otherwise act in accordance with the mutual written instructions of the parties to this Agreement and in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington.

 10.2 Earnest Money. The Earnest Money paid by Purchaser shall be held by Escrow Agent in a separate interest bearing account identified to this transaction. The Earnest Money and all interest accruing thereon between the date of deposit and the date of Closing shall be applied to the Purchaser's obligations at Closing, or if this Agreement is terminated prior to the date of Closing, such Earnest Money and accrued interest shall be applied as provided elsewhere in this Agreement.

 10.3 Escrow Agent shall record all documents necessary to transfer title and thereafter shall pay to Seller the Purchase Price, as adjusted and prorated for Seller's portion of costs of this transaction and after deduction of all applicable fees and taxes.

 10.4 Proration and Expenses. Assessments, surface water management charges, conservation service charges, and utility charges constituting liens against the Property, all for the year of Closing, shall be prorated as of the date of Closing. Any documentary transfer tax, real estate excise tax, or other similar tax in accordance with the requirements of lawful authority shall be paid by Seller. Seller shall pay the premium for the issuance of a standard owner's title insurance policy to be issued to Purchaser at Closing. Purchaser shall pay the cost of extended (ALTA) coverage as well as any additional endorsement premiums as Purchaser may request. Seller and Purchaser will share equally the cost of the escrow fee and expenses associated therewith. All other recording and closing costs shall be the responsibility of the Purchaser.

 10.5 At Closing, the Escrow Agent shall have the Title Company issue to Purchaser the Title Policy insuring fee simple title to the Property subject only to exceptions approved or deemed to have been approved by Purchaser.

 11. DEFAULT

 11.1 If either party to this Agreement shall fail or refuse to perform or satisfy a material obligation under this Agreement and the other party has performed all of its obligations under this Agreement, then the party who has failed or refused to perform shall be in default and the non-defaulting party may elect from the following remedies.

 11.1.1 Seller in Default. In the event that Seller is in default, Purchaser may recover its Earnest Money deposit together with accrued interest as Purchaser's sole and exclusive remedy under this Agreement, in which event this Agreement shall terminate and Purchaser shall have no further rights and Seller shall have no further obligations under this Agreement, except that Purchaser may recover the documented actual costs of survey and geotechnical investigations pursuant to Section 4.4.1, up to a maximum amount of TEN THOUSAND Dollars ($10,000.00).

 11.1.2 Purchaser in Default. In the event that Purchaser fails to close this transaction without legal excuse, Seller may retain the Earnest Money deposit together with accrued interest as Seller's sole and exclusive remedy under this Agreement, in which event this Agreement shall terminate and Seller shall have no further rights and Purchaser shall have no further obligations under this Agreement.

 12. CONDITION OF PROPERTY; RISK OF LOSS

 12.1 Condition of Property. Seller shall deliver the Property to Purchaser at Closing in substantially the same physical condition as of the date of Seller's execution of this Agreement, excepting ordinary wear and tear.

 12.2. Risk of Loss. In the event that the improvements on the Property are destroyed or materially damaged between the date this Agreement is executed by the Seller and the date title is conveyed to Purchaser, Purchaser shall accept the Property in its then condition and any insurance proceeds payable to Seller by reason of the damage to the Property shall be paid and/or assigned, as the case may be, to Purchaser.

 13. CONDEMNATION.

 If, prior to the date of Closing, all or any part of the Property is taken by condemnation by a governmental authority other than the City of Seattle or any agency, commission, department or entity in any way related thereto ("Superior Governmental Authority"), the Purchaser may elect to cancel this Agreement by giving Seller notice to that effect, whereupon the Escrow Agent shall immediately return the Earnest Money and all interest earned thereon to the Purchaser and both parties shall be relieved and released from any liability hereunder to the other. Alternatively, the Purchaser may elect to take title to the Property in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement without reduction of the Purchase Price and shall be entitled to receive from the Superior Governmental Authority any condemnation award or benefit. If Purchaser purchases the Property and complies with all of the terms of this Agreement, Seller shall assign to Purchaser all of its right, title and interest in and to any such condemnation award or benefit, if any, that may be owing to the owner of the Property as a result of such condemnation or taking of, or damage or change to the Property, provided, however, that in such event, Seller's warranties, other than as to the condition of title to the Property, shall lapse.

 14. BROKERS; INDEMNIFICATION

 Purchaser and Seller each warrant and represent that they will each be solely responsible for any and all commissions due their respective real estate broker, salesman, finder or similar intermediary in connection with the purchase of the Property, and each shall hold harmless, indemnify and defend the other from and against any claim based on any alleged fact inconsistent with such party's warranty and representation contained in this Subsection 14.1. The Seller is not represented. The Purchaser represents that it has not been represented by any broker in connection with the purchase of the Property. This indemnification obligation shall survive the Closing and the termination of this Agreement.

 15. ASSIGNMENT; BINDING EFFECT

 15.1 This Agreement may be assigned by the Purchaser subject to approval by Seller which approval will not be unreasonably withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser may assign this Agreement at Closing to any entity in which Purchaser has a 51% or greater ownership interest, without Seller's consent, or an entity in which the Purchaser is the Managing Member.

 15.2 Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall be binding upon each party and its assigns and successors.

 16. NOTICES

 16.1 All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, sent via facsimile or sent by Federal Express or by registered or certified mail through the U.S. Postal Service with postage prepaid as follows:

 SELLER:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 Fleets and Facilities Department

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5200

 P.O. Box 94689

 Seattle, WA 98124-4689

 Attention: Karen Tsao

 Fax Number: (206) 684-0525

 PURCHASER:

 Pacific Housing NW LLC

 157 Yesler Way, Suite 513

 Seattle, Washington 98104

 Attention: Tim Abell

 Fax Number: (206) 382-1776

 With a copy to:

 Fikso Kretschmer Smith Dixon PS

 1130 Market Place Tower

 2025 First Avenue

 Seattle, Washington

 98121-2100

 Attention: Matthew P. Smith

 Fax Number: 448-3434

 or to such other address as shall be furnished in writing with five (5) business days' prior notice by either party.

 16.2 Notices shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of actual receipt, as evidenced by the deliverer's affidavit, the recipient's acknowledgment of receipt, facsimile confirmation, or the Federal Express receipt, and in the event of attempted delivery during normal business hours at the proper address by an agent of a party or by Federal Express or the U.S. Postal Service but refused acceptance, shall be deemed to have been given upon attempted delivery, as evidenced by an affidavit of inability to deliver stating the time, date, place and manner in which such delivery was attempted and the manner in which such delivery was refused.

 17. GOVERNING LAW JURISDICTION AND VENUE

 17.1 This Agreement shall be governed by the law of the State of Washington.

 17.2 In the event that litigation is commenced by either party, the parties to this Agreement agree that jurisdiction shall lie solely in the King County Superior Court, with venue at Seattle, King County, Washington.

 18. TIME OF THE ESSENCE; CALCULATION OF TIME PERIODS

 18.1 Time is of the essence of this Agreement and of all acts required to be done and performed by either and both of the parties hereto, including but not limited to the proper delivery of all documents, and the tender of all amounts of money, required by the terms hereof to be delivered or paid, respectively. Any extension of time granted for performance of any obligation to this Agreement shall not be considered an extension of time for the performance of any other obligation under this Agreement.

 18.2 Unless otherwise specified, in computing any period of time described in this Agreement, the day of the act or event after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included and the last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless such last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. The final day of any such period shall be deemed to end at 5:00 p.m., Pacific Time.

 19. COUNTERPARTS

 19.1 This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and by facsimile. If so, only when counterparts are delivered to the Escrow Agent, with the signatures of each and every one of the parties constituting the Purchaser and Seller, shall it be deemed a binding Agreement.

 19.2 It is understood, agreed and acknowledged that if both Purchaser and Seller have not executed a counterpart of this Agreement and deposited signed copies, accompanied by the Promissory Note with the escrow agent, followed by deposit of the Earnest Money, as provided for in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be of no force and effect.

 20. WAIVER

 20.1 Any waiver under this Agreement must be in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default shall not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default.

 20.2 No writing other than a document signed by the Seller's Fleets and Facilities Department Director specifically so stating that it is a waiver shall constitute a waiver by Seller of any particular breach or default by Purchaser, nor shall such a writing waive Purchaser's failure to fully comply with any other term or condition of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge that any officer or employee of Seller may have of such breach, default, or noncompliance.

 21. ENTIRE AGREEMENT; MODIFICATIONS; NEGOTIATED UNDERSTANDING

 21.1 This Agreement, including all exhibits (which by this reference are incorporated herein), represents the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the Property and any and all agreements, oral or written, entered into prior to the date hereof are revoked and superseded by this Agreement.

 21.2 This Agreement may not be changed, modified or rescinded except in writing signed by both parties and any attempt at oral modification of this Agreement shall be of no effect.

 21.3 The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 22. DEFINITIONS

 For the purposes of this Agreement, the following terms and phrases are defined as specified below:

 22.1 "Document" means and includes information stored in any form; any written, recorded or graphic matter, however produced or reproduced; and copies and drafts thereof. Without limiting the foregoing, "Document" includes correspondence; telegrams; memoranda; reports; notes; drafts; minutes; contracts; agreements; books; records; vouchers; invoices; diaries; calendar notes; logs; computer print-outs; e-mails; voice mails; memory programs; information stored in any data processing or word processing system, in whatever form; back-up materials of any kind; card files; press clippings; newspapers or newsletters; sworn or unsworn statements of employees; lists; audits; tables of organization; monthly or other periodic statements; journals; notices; affidavits; court papers; appointment books; minutes or records of conferences or telephone calls; brochures; written reports or opinions of investigators or experts; status reports; drawings; charts; photographs; negatives; or tape recordings.

 22.2 "Environmental report" means and includes but is not limited to any document relating to the physical condition of the Property or such adjacent property or the presence on the Property or such adjacent property of any Hazardous Materials, as that term is defined in Subsection 22.3.

 22.3 "Hazardous Materials" means and includes any hazardous or toxic substance or container therefor that is or becomes regulated by any governmental authority and includes, without limitation, underground storage tanks and any substance that is:

 (i) Defined as a "Hazardous Substance" "Hazardous Waste," or "Extremely Hazardous Substance" pursuant to any provision of the United States Code, including United States Code sections commonly known as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act or the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986;

 (ii) Defined as a hazardous substance or material pursuant to any state or local law, ordinance or regulation governing the Property;

 (iii) A petroleum or a petroleum by-product;

 (iv) An asbestos or asbestos containing material;

 (v) A pesticide;

 (vi) A polychlorinated biphenyl;

 (viii) A dry cleaning fluid; or

 (ix) A solvent.

 22.4 "In Seller's possession, custody or control" means and includes retained or maintained by, or within the knowledge of, or to which access is reasonably available by, the Fleets and Facilities Department or any of its officers, employees, attorneys, agents, consultants or storage providers.

 23. FURTHER INSTRUMENTS AND ACTION

 Each party shall promptly, upon the request of the other or Escrow Agent, execute, and as required, have acknowledged and deliver to the other, any and all further instruments and shall take all such further action as may be requested or appropriate to evidence or give effect to the provisions of this Agreement or to satisfy escrow agent's requirements.

 24. SURVIVAL

 All warranties, representations, covenants, obligations and agreements contained in or arising out of this Agreement or in any certificates or other documents required to be furnished hereunder, shall survive the Closing. All warranties and representations shall be effective regardless of any investigation made or which could have been made.

 25. TAX DEFERRED EXCHANGE

 Purchaser may elect to incorporate this transaction into a tax deferred exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. In furtherance thereof, Seller agrees to allow Purchaser to assign this Agreement to a third party exchange intermediary for the purpose of effecting the exchange provided that any such exchange will not delay closing or be interpreted to extend any deadline of this Purchase and Sale Agreement. Seller agrees to cooperate with the exchanging party in effecting such exchange; provided that the Seller shall not be required to incur any liability as a result of such cooperation. The failure of the exchange to qualify as an exchange under Section 1031 shall not constitute grounds for rescission by either party and shall not be deemed to be a failure of consideration.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Seller and Purchaser have caused this Agreement to be executed by officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written, which shall be the date that the last of Seller and Purchaser shall have executed this Agreement.

 SIGNATURES APPEAR ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE

 SELLER: PURCHASER:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE PACIFIC HOUSING NORTHWEST, LLC

 By: _______________________________ By:

 Brenda Bauer, Director ________________ (print name)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Its ________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON)

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____day of _______________, 2006, before me, personally appeared Brenda Bauer, to me known to be the Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department of The City of Seattle, who executed the foregoing agreement, and acknowledged the same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said agreement.

 GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year written above in this certificate.

 (Signature) _______________________

 (Printed or typed name of Notary Public):

 ___________________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _________________________ My appointment expires __________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF )

 On this _____day of _____________, 2006 before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _______________________, who executed the foregoing document, and acknowledged the same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute such document for and on behalf of said corporation.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year written above in this certificate.

 (Signature) _______________________

 (Printed or typed name of Notary Public):

 ___________________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _________________________ My appointment expires __________________

 EXHIBIT A

 Legal Description

 Lots 14 through 28, inclusive, Block 22, Hill Tract Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 8 of Plats, page 42, in King County, Washington;

 Except the South 56 feet thereof of Lots 26, 27, and 28.

 EXHIBIT B

 Site Map

 EXHIBIT C

 List of Documents

 KTA Associates, Inc., Environmental Site Assessment Report for Property at 20th Avenue S. and S. Jackson Street, Seattle, WA 98144, March 3, 2004

 Eco Compliance Corporation, Phase I Environmental Site Assessment and Hazardous Materials Survey, March 17, 2005

 PacRim Geotechnical Inc., Environmental Site Review: 20th Avenue S. and S. Jackson Street, Seattle, WA, October 10, 2005

 EXHIBIT D

 QUITCLAIM DEED

 FOR VALUABLE CONSIDERATION in the amount of $_______________, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Grantor, The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, does hereby quitclaim and convey to ____________________, a Washington ______________ ("Grantee"), all interest in the real property situate in the County of King, State of Washington, and more particularly described on Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference (the "Property")

 Dated this _____ day of __________________, 2006.

 Dated this _____ day of __________________, 2006.

 SELLER: The City of Seattle

 a Washington municipal corporation

 By:

 Its:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _________________________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _____________________________________________ of The City of Seattle. A Washington municipal corporation, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: ________________________

 Notary Public

 Print Name

 My commission expires

 Jackson St. and 20th Ave. Property

 Purchase and Sale Agreement

 Page 1 of 16

 Purchase and Sale Agreement Initial Corrected Page_________

 Page 16 of 16

```
