

********

**Council Bill Number: 115884**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122398**
********

 AN ORDINANCE adopting a new Major Institution Master Plan for the South Seattle Community College; and amending Chapter 23.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code at pages 152, 153, 166 and 167 of the Official Land Use Map to modify height limits and rezone property in the Major Institution Overlay, all generally located along 16th Avenue SW. (C.F. 306441)

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 14, 2007
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Conlin, Drago)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 23, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 23, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 30, 2007
   
**Committee:** Urban Development and Planning
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-PLANNING, LAND-USE-CODE, COLLEGES, REZONES, COLLEGES, , SOUTH-DELRIDGE, HIGHLAND-PARK

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 306441

**Fiscal Note:**115884

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122398](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122398.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE adopting a new Major Institution Master Plan for the South Seattle Community College; and amending Chapter 23.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code at pages 152, 153, 166 and 167 of the Official Land Use Map to modify height limits and rezone property in the Major Institution Overlay, all generally located along 16th Avenue SW. (C.F. 306441)

 WHEREAS, the South Seattle Community College (SSCC) had an existing Major Institution Master Plan (MIMP) which was adopted by the Council in June 1993 by Ordinance 116758 and which expired in June 2003; and

 WHEREAS, the preparation and review of the proposed new SSCC MIMP included the following principal steps:

 1. SSCC's notification to the Department of Planning and Development (DPD) of its intent to prepare a new MIMP in December, 2003;

 2. Application to DPD for a new MIMP on February 12, 2004;

 3. Council approval of a Citizen Advisory Committee by Resolution 30677 on May 17, 2004;

 4. SSCC confirmation of lead agency status for environmental review through public scoping in June 2004;

 5. Issuance of a Draft MIMP and Draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) on April 7, 2005;

 6. Publication of a Final MIMP and Final EIS on January 27, 2006;

 7. Issuance of the DPD Director's Recommendation on October 5, 2006;

 8. An open record public hearing convened by the City Hearing Examiner on November 20, 2006;

 9. Issuance of Findings and Recommendations by the City Hearing Examiner on December 21, 2006;

 10. Review of the proposed MIMP including a determination of the sufficiency of the record by the City Council's Urban Development and Planning Committee on March 28, 2007 and April 11, 2007; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council has considered the proposed MIMP, the record assembled by the Hearing Examiner, including the reports and recommendations of the DPD Director, the Citizen Advisory Committee, and the Hearing Examiner; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council intends to adopt the MIMP as recommended by the Hearing Examiner; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The South Seattle Community College (SSCC) main campus Final Major Institution Master Plan (MIMP), dated January 27, 2006 and filed in C.F. 306441, is hereby adopted by the City Council, subject to the conditions contained in the Council's Findings, Conclusions and Decision in Attachment A. Upon DPD review and approval of the final compiled MIMP, including the conditions adopted by the City Council, pursuant to the provisions of Seattle Municipal Code section 23.69.032.K, DPD shall submit a copy of the final compiled SSCC MIMP to the City Clerk, to be placed on file in C.F. 306441. The property located within the boundaries of the Major Institution Overlay may be developed in accordance with the new adopted MIMP.

 Section 2. The Official Land Use Map, Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 23.32, at pages 152, 153, 166 and 167, is amended to modify height limits in the South Seattle Community College Major Institution Overlay, as shown on Attachment B.

 Section 3. This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its passage and approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____day of __________, 2007

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment A - Findings, Conclusion and Decision Attachment B - Map rezone of Major Institution Overlay Height Limits

 ATTACHMENT A FINDINGS, CONCLUSIONS AND DECISION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SEATTLE In the matter of the Petition of SOUTH SEATTLE COMMUNITY COLLEGE To establish a new Major Institution Master Plan for the South Seattle Community College Campus located at 6000 - 16th Ave SW

 C.F. 306441 Project 2307767

 FINDINGS, CONCLUSIONS AND DECISION

 Introduction

 This matter involves the petition of South Seattle Community College ("SSCC") to establish a new Major Institution Master Plan ("MIMP") for their main campus located at 6000 - 16th Ave SW in West Seattle. The proposed MIMP includes the approval of planned and potential projects in two phases lasting up to 30 years, a new Transportation Management Plan regulating commuting and parking, development standards governing new construction, an increase in the amount of allowed parking provided at the campus and a rezone to change height limits of the existing Major Institution Overlay (MIO) on a portion of the campus, from MIO-37 to MIO-50.

 SSCC's previous MIMP, adopted by the City Council through Ordinance 116758 in June 1993, expired in June 2003. In December 2003, SSCC began the process of establishing a new MIMP.

 In September 2006 the Citizens Advisory Committee ("CAC") issued its Final Report and Recommendation, recommending that the MIMP be approved subject to conditions. In October 2006, the Department of Planning and Development ("DPD") issued its Analysis, Recommendation and Determination of the DPD Director, recommending that the MIMP be approved subject to conditions. In December 2006, the City Hearing Examiner issued Findings and Recommendations for approval of the MIMP subject to the conditions recommended by DPD.

 The City Council's Urban Development and Planning (UDP) Committee considered the matter at meetings on March 28, 2007 and April 11, 2007. At their May 9, 2007 meeting, the Committee voted unanimously to recommend approval of Clerk's File 306441. After considering the record and Committee recommendation, the full Council voted to adopt the MIMP, and the modified and additional conditions recommended by the UDP committee. The Council therefore makes the following findings, conclusions, and decision.

 Findings of Fact

 The Council hereby adopts the Hearing Examiner's Findings of Fact as stated in the Findings and Recommendation of the Hearing Examiner dated December 12, 2006.

 Conclusions

 Pursuant to S.M.C. Chapters 23.69 and 23.76, the City Council has jurisdiction over this matter. The Council hereby adopts the Hearing Examiner's Conclusions as stated in the Findings and Recommendation of the Hearing Examiner dated December 21, 2006. In addition to those conditions recommended by the Hearing Examiner, as amended below, which the Council adopts, the Council also adopts additional conditions shown below. The amended conditions, along with the additional conditions, are consistent with the original Findings and Conclusions of the Hearing Examiner.

 Decision

 The SSCC main campus Major Institution Master Plan, including proposed rezones, is hereby adopted, subject to the following conditions recommended by the Hearing Examiner, as further modified, and with the additional conditions listed below.

 CITY COUNCIL APPROVED CONDITIONS TO THE SOUTH SEATTLE COMMUNITY COLLEGE (SSCC) MAJOR INSTITUTION MASTER PLAN (MIMP)

 C.F. 306441

 I. Conditions Recommended by Hearing Examiner, as modified by City Council

 A. Major Institution Master Plan

 1) SSCC shall create and maintain a Standing Advisory Committee (SAC) to review and evaluate all proposed and potential projects prior to the submission of a Master Use Permit application. Department of Planning and Development (DPD) and Department of Neighborhood (DON) staff time for attendance at these meetings shall be reimbursed by SSCC.

 2) SSCC shall comply with all provisions of the approved Final MIMP including but not limited to limits on the amount of allowed development in the Development Program, the applicable Development Standards, and the Transportation Management Program.

 3) The Final MIMP shall be amended to provide that sports field lighting shall be a potential (long term) project and any sports field lighting that is installed shall be designed to minimize the impact on the community at night through the use of shielded and directed light fixtures that direct lighting onto the playfields and minimize the infiltration of light beyond the field and that the SAC be given an opportunity to review and comment on the design of any field light proposed for this or any location on campus.

 4) The Final MIMP shall provide the following structure setbacks: 100-foot setbacks from 16th Ave. S.W.; 100-foot setbacks from the property boundary on the eastern extent of the College site, or the buffer width required by the City's Environmentally Critical Areas Ordinance from the top of steep slopes, whichever is greater; and 100-foot setbacks from the MIO boundary along the SW Findlay Street right of way, across from residentially-zoned properties on the northern end of the western boundary. The following exception shall apply to the front setback: no more than two one-story buildings, each no greater than 4,000 square feet, may be located in the front setback, pursuant to Condition 5, below, Figure 14 in the Final MIMP, Page 36 shall be modified to show these setbacks.

 5) The Final MIMP shall be amended to limit development in the 100- foot front setback area adjacent to 16th Ave. S.W. to no more than two (2) one-story developments, each no greater than 4,000 gross square feet and with each associated parking area not to exceed twenty spaces. Any such building and/or related parking area shall be reviewed by the SAC prior to the application for any required master use permit or building permit.

 6) The Final MIMP shall be amended, in the Height Limit section on Page 38. The first paragraph following the italicized heading under this section shall be amended to read as follows:

 a) In the area bounded by 16th Avenue SW, the North Entry Road, the east margin of the north parking lots, and a line perpendicular to the south margin of the north parking lots as shown on Figure 1 of the September, 2006 CAC report, campus buildings, except student housing, shall be limited to between two and three stories, not to exceed 50 feet in height, excluding rooftop mechanical equipment and elevator/stair penthouses. In addition, in order to mitigate for the potential height, bulk and scale impacts on surrounding residential properties, the College shall seek public comment from the surrounding neighborhood and the SAC regarding the siting, massing, design of exterior facades and use of materials in the area depicted in Figure 1 from the September 2006 CAC report. Prior to the submittal of any master use permit application in this part of the campus, the SAC shall develop a process to obtain public comment on any such proposal. This strategy for public comment shall be reviewed and approved by DPD prior to the submittal of any master use permit in this study area. Decision-making on proposals for these buildings shall be guided by the following principles:

 * Consideration shall be given to whether the College's program can be effectively met with two stories rather than three while preserving open space, setbacks, and other site development objectives; and

 * Landscaping and other bulk- reducing techniques shall be incorporated to reduce the appearance of bulk and height from 16th Avenue SW.

 b) Elsewhere in the MIO-50 zone, any proposal for a structure more than three stories in height, in particular for any proposed campus housing, shall be subject to review and comment by the SAC prior to the application for a master use permit.

 7) Figure 1 from the CAC's September 2006 report shall be inserted into the MIMP on Page 38 to document the location of this area. All other portions of the section of Height Limits, following the first sentence and the addition of this section, are not changed for the Final compiled MIMP.

 8) Prior to the application for a master use permit for any student housing identified in the Final MIMP, the College shall undertake a feasibility analysis of developing student housing on the campus. The College shall notify the SAC and members of the public within 300 feet of the MIO boundary of the availability of the analysis, followed by a public meeting on the findings of any such report, and seek public and SAC comments on the analysis.

 9) Any request to re-align and extend the existing frontage road north of the existing central access to the Campus shall be subject to review by the SAC, with notice to property owners within 300 feet of SSCC along 16th Ave SW, prior to submittal of either a master use permit or building permit application to DPD.

 10) For the life of the MIMP, the pattern of development and open space connections with the neighborhood shall be maintained on 16th Avenue SW between the north campus access road and the south campus boundary similar to that shown in the Long Range Plan in the Final MIMP (Page 28, Figure 12). During the review of all future buildings identified in the Final MIMP, SSCC should evaluate that building's effect upon maintaining this pattern and these connections. If SSCC proposes to change the pattern of development and open space connections on 16th Avenue SW from that shown on the Long Range Plan (Page 28, Figure 12), it shall first provide notice to the SAC to allow for their review and comment prior to the submittal of any associated master use permit or building permit application.

 11) Page 40 of the Final MIMP, under the Parking heading, shall be amended by adding the following phrase at the end of the first paragraph: "As discussed in the TMP below, the forecasted parking supply exceeds the maximum allowed under the land use code. Therefore, the MIMP authorizes parking in excess of the code maximum to minimize adverse parking impacts in the adjacent neighborhood."

 B. SEPA conditions - DPD report

 1) Replacement of existing structures on the central campus shall be designed and implemented in such a way as to minimize the damage and removal of the trees and shrubs that comprise the landscaping.

 2) Trees or shrubs on the central campus that have been removed or significantly damaged as a result of construction activity shall be replaced with specimens of equal or greater educational and ecological value.

 3) To mitigate the increase in the bulk and density of buildings on campus, the College shall formally set aside the wooded area located in the northeast area of campus east of the Seattle Chinese Garden for open space.

 4) During the planning for design and construction of new buildings and other development of the SSCC campus, accomplish the following:

 * Replacement of damaged/removed trees and shrubs with specimens of equal or greater educational and ecological value.

 * Design to minimize impacts to trees and shrubs.

 * Under the guidance of an arborist, take appropriate measures to protect the Exceptional Trees and other trees to be preserved.

 * Consult the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife (WDFW) Priority Habitats Database to ensure no new data points are documented nearer to campus.

 5) For each phase of construction review the WDFW Priority Habitats Database to ensure that no new data points (species of concern) are documented nearer the site that may create buffers, as recommended by WDFW, which overlap with the campus. If a new data point is identified in the master use permit process, SSCC shall notify DPD of the finding, and DPD and or any other interested agency may exercise authority to condition the project under SEPA.

 6) SSCC shall continue to promote its required TMP in order to reduce the number of single occupant vehicle trips to the campus.

 II - City Council Conditions

 A. Additional City Council Conditions - MIMP

 1) The Final MIMP shall be amended to provide a chart, to be inserted in the section on Development Standards, that documents each development standard found in SMC 23.45.090-102 that is unchanged to SSCC, additional development standards required to be provided by SMC 23.69.030C-E, and a listing of all development standards from SMC 23.45.090-102 that are modified by the MIMP and explanation of how they are modified.

 2) The list of near-term planned and potential projects and long-term potential projects, detailed on Pages 2-3 of the Director's Report to the Hearing Examiner, shall be listed in the Final MIMP on Pages 26- 28.

 3) Pursuant to SMC 23.54.016C, the request to exceed the maximum number of parking spaces in the first 15 years of the MIMP is approved, but is limited to allow no more than 1,590 stalls at the end of year 15, or the first MIMP phase.

 4) Pursuant to SMC 23.54.016C, the request to exceed the maximum number of parking spaces in the long-term phase of the MIMP, i.e., between 15 and 30 years, is approved. No more than 1,850 total stalls are allowed by at the end of year 30.

 5) The request for an additional 200 parking stalls, in addition to the increase in the maximum 135% percentage, may only be approved through the master use permit process. The request shall include the submittal of updated traffic and parking analyses, supported by student and faculty population forecasting, required surveys and other related data. SSCC must be able to demonstrate that these spaces are necessary because of substantial increases in faculty, staff and/or students as a result of changes in classes or programs that cause increases in documented projected parking demand. If approved, the existing TMP shall be updated to include strategies that reflect the additional parking but maintain the 40% non-SOV goal required under this MIMP.

 6) The request to decrease the required 50% non-SOV rate is approved, pursuant to the following:

 * The non-SOV goal for the TMP will be set at 40%.

 * A survey of student commuting behavior must be taken 5 years following the approval of the MIMP. The survey shall use the same methodology as that in the May 2005 survey found on Pages 170-177 of the FEIS. This survey shall be in addition to the surveys required to document faculty and staff commuting behavior in the required TMP/CTR.

 * The student behavior survey must be repeated every 5 years until the end of the MIMP life and included in SSCC and/or City evaluation of TMP elements.

 * Goal attainment may be made through augmenting of existing program elements or adoption of new elements.

 B. City Council Additional Conditions - SEPA

 1. All mitigating measures and conditions in the Final EIS shall be implemented, as found in Section 1, pages S-7 through S-23.

 Dated this __________ day of _________________________, 2007. _______________________________ City Council President

 v.3 t

[Attachment B - Map rezone of Major Institution Overlay Height Limits](/~ordpics/115884.gif)

```
