

********

**Council Bill Number: 115850**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122367**
********

 AN ORDINANCE amending the 2007 Fleets and Facilities Department adopted Budget; authorizing the Fleets and Facilities Department Director, on behalf of the Seattle Department of Transportation, to execute a sublease agreement with Bank of America, N.A. for office space in the Bank of America Fifth Avenue Plaza; increasing the Fleets and Facilities Department's appropriations in the 2007 budget; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 26, 2007
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 2, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 2, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Bridging the Gap Office Space Lease

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 19, 2007
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, OFFICE-FACILITIES, FLEETS-AND-FACILITIES-DEPARTMENT, DEPARTMENT-OF-TRANSPORTATION-SEATTLE, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING

**Fiscal Note:**115850

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122367](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122367.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE amending the 2007 Fleets and Facilities Department adopted Budget; authorizing the Fleets and Facilities Department Director, on behalf of the Seattle Department of Transportation, to execute a sublease agreement with Bank of America, N.A. for office space in the Bank of America Fifth Avenue Plaza; increasing the Fleets and Facilities Department's appropriations in the 2007 budget; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Department of Transportation has been authorized to hire additional employees in 2007 to implement projects funded by the "Bridging the Gap" funding package, including the levy program passed by Seattle voters in 2006; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Department of Transportation needs approximately 21,000 square feet of additional office space for at least eight years in order to accommodate new and existing employees necessary to complete the projects in the "Bridging the Gap" funding package; and

 WHEREAS, adequate space to accommodate these new and existing employees is not currently available in City-owned buildings; and

 WHEREAS, the City evaluated several proposals to provide office space in the vicinity of the City Hall and the Seattle Municipal Tower, the best of which was from Bank of America, N.A. for subleased office space in the Bank of America Fifth Avenue Plaza; and

 WHEREAS, the proposed sublease agreement is for a longer term and includes more office space than the Fleets and Facilities Department is authorized to lease without City Council approval under the provisions of Seattle Municipal Code 3.18.200 and 3.18.240; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Department of Transportation has sufficient funds in its 2007 budget to pay for this expense, but the Fleets and Facilities Department requires additional appropriation authority to carry out the transaction on SDOT's behalf; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Fleets and Facilities Director and recommended by the Mayor, said Director or her designee is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, a sublease agreement with Bank of America, N.A., substantially in the form of Exhibit "1" attached hereto, and providing for occupancy by the City of Seattle of a portion of the real property commonly known as the Bank of America Fifth Avenue Plaza, located at 800 Fifth Avenue, Seattle, Washington.

 Section 2. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred or to be incurred in 2007 as a result of the sublease authorized in Section 1 above, but for which insufficient appropriations were made, the appropriation for the following in the

 2007 Adopted Budget is increased from the fund shown, as follows:

 Fund Department Budget Control Level Amount

 Fleets and Fleets and Facility Services $266,125 Facilities Facilities (A3000) Operating Fund (50300)

 Total $266,125

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of all the members of the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of__________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 Exhibit 1: Sublease between Bank of America, N.A. and the City of Seattle

 for the Seattle Department of Transportation

 (Seal)

 Barbara Brannan

 FFD SDOT Fifth Ave Plaza Lease Ord.doc

 March 8, 2007

 version 4

 2

 SUBLEASE

 This Sublease is made and dated as of _______, 2007 (the date of the last signature affixed to this Sublease and the "Effective Date") by the Sublandlord and the Subtenant named below.

 ARTICLE 1 - BASIC SUBLEASE TERMS

 For the purposes of this Sublease, the following definitions and Terms shall apply:

 1.0 Master Landlord: Block 24 Seattle, LTD., L.P.

 1.1 Sublandlord: Bank of America N.A., a national banking association.

 1.2 Subtenant: City of Seattle, a first class municipal corporation of the State of Washington.

 1.3 Subleased Premises: The office space indicated on Exhibit A hereto, on the floors indicated thereon, comprising an aggregate of approximately twenty one thousand, two hundred eighty-nine (21,289 rsf) rentable square feet made up of the entire 30th floor in the Bank of America Fifth Avenue Plaza Building (the "Building") located at 800 5th Ave, Seattle, Washington (the "Subleased Premises"). The Building and its parking areas and other appurtenances are herein together called the "Property", which is legally described in the Master Lease, described in Section 1.8, below.

 1.4 Sublease Term: A period of time ("Sublease Term") commencing upon the Delivery Date, as defined below, and, unless sooner terminated as herein provided, ending on May 31, 2016 (the "Expiration Date"). The Delivery Date shall constitute the commencement of the Sublease Term for all purposes, whether or not Subtenant has actually taken possession. The Subleased Premises shall be delivered to Subtenant in a "broom-clean" condition, free of all equipment and debris, upon substantial completion of the Initial Alterations described in Section 1.11 below(the "Delivery Date"). Both Sublandlord and Subtenant shall work diligently and in good faith in an attempt to achieve a Delivery Date of July 1, 2007. The parties shall jointly execute a document memorializing the Delivery Date, once it has occurred. Any early occupancy of the Subleased Premises shall not advance the Expiration Date of this Sublease. The Sublease Term shall automatically expire or terminate upon the expiration or termination of the Master Lease.

 1.5 Rent Commencement Date: The Rent Commencement Date shall be the Delivery Date.

 1.6 Base Rent: Base Rent shall be paid by Subtenant from the Rent Commencement Date through the Expiration Date as follows:

 Period Rentable Square Monthly Rent Rental Rate Feet per square foot

 Rent Commencement 21,289 $44,352.08 $25.00 Date to 6/30/08

 7/1/08 - 6/30/09 " $46,126.17 $26.00

 7/1/09 - 6/30/10 " $47,900.25 $27.00

 7/1/10 - 6/30/11 " $49,674.33 $28.00

 7/1/11 - 6/30/12 " $51,448.42 $29.00

 7/1/12 - 6/30/13 " $53,222.50 $30.00

 7/1/13 - 6/30/14 " $54,996.58 $31.00

 7/1/14 - 6/30/15 " $56,770.67 $32.00

 7/1/15 - 5/31/16 " $58,544.75 $33.00

 1.7 Permitted Use: General office purposes.

 1.8 Master Lease: Lease dated January 25, 1979, as amended by First Amendment to Lease Agreement dated May 10, 1979, Letter Agreement dated October 27, 1980, Second Amendment to Lease dated December 31, 1986, Third Amendment to Lease Agreement dated August 1, 1994, Fourth Amendment to Lease Agreement dated September 25, 1995, Fifth Amendment to Lease Agreement dated August 1, 1999 and Sixth Amendment to Lease Agreement dated December 6, 2005 (collectively, the "Master Lease") attached as Exhibit B by which Block 24 Seattle, LTD., L.P. (the "Master Landlord") leased certain space in the Building known as the Bank of America Fifth Avenue Plaza Building to Bank of America N.A. (the "Sublandlord").

 1.9 Security Deposit: Intentionally deleted.

 1.10 Base Year. The Base Year for Operating Expenses shall be the calendar year 2007.

 1.11 Tenant Improvements and Allowances.

 (a) The parties acknowledge that prior to the Delivery Date, Sublandlord shall make certain alterations and improvements, as requested by Subtenant, (the "Initial Alterations") to the Subleased Premises. The design and construction of the Initial Alterations shall be subject to the following:

 (1) The Work Letter Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit C;

 (2) Master Landlord's approval in accordance with the Master Lease;

 (3) Sublandlord's approval consistent with Article 6 hereof, which approval by Sublandlord shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it shall not be unreasonable for Sublandlord to withhold its approval in the event that the "cross-over" corridor connecting the mid-rise and high-rise elevators is removed, altered or rendered in any way unuseable by Sublandlord and other tenants of the Building. If Sublandlord fails to give approval or denial in writing (with a written explanation of any reason for a denial of such approval) within fifteen (15) business days after Subtenant submits its written request for approval then Sublandlord's approval shall be deemed denied;

 (b) Sublandlord shall contribute up to Six Hundred Thirty-eight Thousand, Seven Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($638,700.00) (the "Initial Tenant Improvement Allowance") toward the total cost of the Initial Alterations and the project management fee, and toward Subtenant's reasonable and customary expenses of relocating to the Building (to include moving costs, architect fees, design costs and telecommunications/IT costs), (such reasonable and customary expenses to be termed "Soft Costs"); provided, however that only up to One Hundred Six Thousand, Four Hundred Fifty and 00/100 Dollars ($106,450.00) of the Initial Tenant Improvement Allowance may be used for the Soft Costs. In the event that the cost of the Initial Alterations exceeds the Initial Tenant Improvement Allowance, Subtenant shall be responsible for the cost of such excess. Subtenant shall pay to Sublandlord a project management fee in the amount of five percent (5%) of the hard costs of the construction and installation of the Initial Alterations; such fee to be paid by Sublandlord first deducting the amount of the fee from the Initial Tenant Improvement Allowance, if not depleted.

 ARTICLE 2 - GRANTING CLAUSE AND RENT PROVISIONS

 2.1 Grant of Premises. Sublandlord hereby leases the Subleased Premises to Subtenant during the Sublease Term, subject to the provisions of this Sublease. Sublandlord shall not be obligated to provide any service, pay any cost or expense nor do any act or thing with regard to the Subleased Premises except as may be specifically stated in this Sublease.

 2.2 Transferable Personal Property. Subtenant shall have the right to use, at no cost, the furniture, fixtures and equipment located in the Subleased Premises and more particularly described in the attached Exhibit D ("Transferable Personal Property"). Upon the expiration of this Sublease, the Transferable Personal Property shall become the property of Subtenant upon the payment of One Dollar ($1.00) and the execution and delivery of a bill of sale acceptable to the parties.

 2.3 Base Rent; Late Payment. Subtenant agrees to pay the Base Rent to Sublandlord monthly in advance during the Term of this Sublease, without demand, offset or reduction. One (1) monthly installment of Base Rent shall be due and payable on the Rent Commencement Date and a like monthly installment shall be due and payable on or before the first day of each calendar month succeeding the month after the Rent Commencement Date during the Term of this Sublease, without demand, offset or reduction; provided, if the Rent Commencement Date should be a date other than the first day of a calendar month, the monthly rental set forth above shall be prorated to the end of that calendar month, and all succeeding installments of rent shall be payable on or before the first day of each succeeding calendar month during the Term of this Sublease. Subtenant shall pay, as additional rent, all other sums due under this Sublease. Base Rent and additional rent are sometimes collectively called "rent". If any payment due Sublandlord is not received by Sublandlord by the fifth (5th) day after notice of non-receipt from Sublandlord, Subtenant shall at Sublandlord's request pay to Sublandlord a late payment charge of five percent (5%) of the past- due amount.

 2.4 Additional Rent/Operating Expenses. Commencing January 1, 2008, Subtenant shall pay to Sublandlord, as additional rent, all amounts, if any, that Sublandlord is required to pay to Master Landlord pursuant to the Master Lease that are related to operating expenses of the Building or basic costs of the Building or similar items (or to increases in the foregoing), but only to the extent such amounts are applicable to the Subleased Premises and to the extent that such amounts exceed the amount of such expenses during the Base Year. Operating Expense increases include any proportionate share of increases in real estate taxes. The allocation of operating expenses between the Subleased Premises and the Premises leased by Sublandlord as Tenant under the Master Lease shall be 2.72%. Subtenant shall pay all use, consumption and other charges for after-hours air conditioning, electricity or other special services for the Subleased Premises requested by Subtenant for which Sublandlord is or would be responsible with respect to the Subleased Premises under the Master Lease or otherwise. Upon Subtenant's written request, Sublandlord shall provide to Subtenant a reasonably detailed statement of all amounts paid by Sublandlord under the Master Lease and charged to Subtenant hereunder. Subtenant shall pay the amounts referred to in this Section within thirty (30) days after receipt of notice of the amount due, along with copies of any statements received from Master Landlord (and if such amount is a regularly recurring amount, only one such notice shall be required for all such regularly recurring amounts due during the period specified in such notice).

 2.5 Holding Over. Upon the expiration or earlier Termination of this Sublease, Subtenant agrees to vacate and deliver the Subleased Premises, and all keys thereto, to Sublandlord. If Subtenant does not vacate the Subleased Premises upon the expiration or earlier Termination of this Sublease without Master Landlord's and Sublandlord's consent, Subtenant shall be a Subtenant at sufferance for the holdover period and all of the Terms and provisions of this Sublease shall be applicable during that period, except that Subtenant shall at the option of Sublandlord pay to Sublandlord (in addition to any other sums payable under this Sublease) as base rental for the period of such holdover an amount equal to 200% of the Base Rent which would have been payable by Subtenant had the holdover period been a part of the original Term of this Sublease (without waiver of Sublandlord's right to recover damages as permitted by law) but not less than the amount, if any, that Sublandlord is required to pay under the Master Lease in such event for the Subleased Premises. The rental payable during the holdover period shall be payable to Sublandlord on demand. No holding over by Subtenant, without the consent of Sublandlord, shall operate to extend the Term of this Sublease. Subtenant shall indemnify Sublandlord against all claims made by Master Landlord or any Subtenant or prospective Subtenant against Sublandlord resulting from delay by Sublandlord in delivering possession of the Subleased Premises to the Master Landlord or such other Subtenant or prospective Subtenant, to the extent caused by holding over by Subtenant without Sublandlord's consent.

 ARTICLE 3 - OCCUPANCY AND USE

 3.1 Use; Compliance. The Subleased Premises shall be used and occupied only for the Permitted Use as set forth in Section 1.7. Subtenant has inspected the Subleased Premises and accepts them in their present "AS-IS" condition, subject to the Initial Alterations. Subtenant, at its expense, shall comply with all applicable laws and other legal requirements pertaining to Subtenant's specific use of the Subleased Premises and with the rules and regulations of the Property in effect from time to time. If Subtenant is not complying with such legal requirements or rules and regulations, Sublandlord, may, at its election, after thirty (30) days notice and without waiving any right or default, enter the Subleased Premises without liability therefor and fulfill Subtenant's obligations at Subtenant's expense if such failure to comply has not been cured by Subtenant.

 3.2 Entry. Sublandlord or its authorized agents shall at any and all reasonable times have the right to enter the Subleased Premises without liability therefor, upon reasonable notice to Subtenant (which may be oral) except in an emergency, when no notice shall be required.

 ARTICLE 4 - UTILITIES AND SERVICES

 Sublandlord is not responsible for providing any services or utilities to Subtenant. Sublandlord shall, however, use commercially reasonable efforts to cause Master Landlord to comply with its obligations under the Master Lease with respect to the Subleased Premises and to provide all such services and utilities for the benefit of the Subleased Premises. Failure or cessation in the furnishing of any services or utilities shall not render Sublandlord liable to Subtenant in any respect for damages to either persons or property, nor be construed as an eviction by Sublandlord, nor work an abatement of rent, nor relieve Subtenant from fulfillment of any covenant or agreement in this Sublease, provided however that there shall be an abatement of Subtenant's rent in the event that Sublandlord's rent, with respect to the Subleased Premises, is abated pursuant to the terms of the Master Lease.

 ARTICLE 5 - REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE

 5.1 Sublandlord Repairs. Sublandlord shall have no obligation to repair, maintain, refurbish or make replacements for the Subleased Premises (collectively, "repairs"), whether or not arising out of fire, other casualty, or in connection with the need for normal maintenance and repair. Sublandlord shall, however, use commercially reasonable efforts to cause Master Landlord to comply with its obligations under the Master Lease with respect to the Subleased Premises and to provide such repairs for the benefit of the Subleased Premises.

 5.2 Subtenant Repairs. Subtenant shall be responsible for the cost to repair or replace any damage or injury in or about the Subleased Premises caused by any act or omission of Subtenant or Subtenant's agents, employees, or invitees. Subject to Article 6 and Subsection 1.11, hereof, and Article XII of the Master Lease, at the Termination of this Sublease, by lapse of time or otherwise, Subtenant shall deliver the Subleased Premises to Sublandlord in the same repair and condition as existed on the Delivery Date , normal wear and tear and damage by fire or other casualty excepted.

 ARTICLE 6 - ALTERATIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS

 Subtenant shall not make or allow to be made any alterations, physical additions or improvements in or to the Subleased Premises without first obtaining the written consent of Sublandlord whose consent shall not be unreasonably withheld conditioned or delayed, and Master Landlord. For purposes of this Article 6, it shall be deemed a reasonable condition for Sublandlord to require that Subtenant, upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Sublease, remove any alterations and/or improvements that are specifically identified by Sublandlord at the time Sublandlord provides its consent for such alterations and improvements or otherwise required to be removed in accordance with the Master Lease. Subtenant shall have no authority or power, express or implied, to create or cause the imposition of any mechanic's lien, materialman's lien, charge or encumbrance of any kind against the Subleased Premises of the Property or any portion thereof. Subtenant waives any defects in the Subleased Premises, except as may be caused by the negligent acts or omissions of Sublandlord or Master Landlord, or any breach of Sublandlord's obligations or Master Landlord's obligations with regard to required ADA and life safety equipment obligations under this Sublease or the Master Lease after the date of this Sublease, and Subtenant accepts the Subleased Premises as suitable for the purpose for which they are leased subject to Sublandlord's construction of the Initial Alterations as provided herein. All engineering plans, specifications, and drawings for any alterations and improvements, including the Initial Alterations, shall be prepared by engineers/contractors/architects approved by Master Landlord for work in the Building. All alterations and improvements to the Subleased Premises and to any part of the Building outside of the Subleased Premises that are triggered by Subtenant's alterations and improvements within the Subleased Premises shall, subject only to the Initial Tenant Improvement Allowance, be the financial responsibility of Subtenant.

 ARTICLE 7 - MASTER LEASE

 7.1 Compliance with Master Lease. Except for the obligation to pay base rent or operating expense escalations to Master Landlord as provided in the Master Lease, Subtenant shall comply with all of the provisions of the Master Lease that are to be observed or performed by Sublandlord as Subtenant thereunder with respect to the Subleased Premises. Subtenant shall not, by any act or omission, cause Sublandlord to be in violation of or in default under the Master Lease.

 7.2 Incorporation of Master Lease.

 (a) Insofar as the provisions of the Master Lease do not conflict with specific provisions hereof, they and each of them are incorporated by this reference into this Sublease as fully as if completely restated herein. Subtenant shall be bound to Sublandlord by all of the provisions of the Master Lease and shall perform all of the obligations and responsibilities that Sublandlord by the Master Lease undertakes toward Master Landlord with respect to the Subleased Premises. Therefore, in construing these obligations of Subtenant to Sublandlord, wherever in the Master Lease the word "Landlord" or "Lessor" is used, it shall mean Master Landlord and wherever in the Master Lease the word "Tenant" or "Lessee" is used, it shall mean Sublandlord and wherever in the Master Lease the words "Leased Premises" or "Premises" or similar words are used, they shall mean the Subleased Premises.

 (b) The foregoing notwithstanding, this Sublease does not create any rights in Master Landlord or any third parties, and if there are any provisions in the Master Lease that pertain to Sublandlord's rights regarding:

 (1) any option or election, including any option to renew or extend the Term thereof, or to expand the premises thereunder, or any preferential right or right of first refusal on any additional space; or

 (2) any exclusive uses in favor of Sublandlord; or

 (3) any sign rights (or rights regarding the name of the Building) in favor of Sublandlord; or

 (4) any Subtenant finish or other construction obligations; or

 (5) any monetary allowances for construction, rehabilitation or other purposes, any free rent, any credit against rent, or any other reduction, waiver or forgiveness of rent, or any postponement of rent; or

 (6) any parking rights of Sublandlord; or

 (7) any provisions of the Master Lease that apply uniquely to Sublandlord;

 then none of such provisions shall be incorporated herein and Subtenant shall not have any rights or benefits thereunder.

 7.3 Subject to Master Lease. This Sublease is expressly subject to and inferior to the Master Lease.

 7.4 Familiarity with Master Lease. Subtenant represents that it has read and is familiar with all of the provisions of the Master Lease.

 7.5 Sublandlord's Obligations Re: Master Lease. Sublandlord

 shall have no liability to Subtenant or any other person for damage of any nature whatsoever as a result of the failure of Master Landlord to perform its obligations, except in the event of (i) Termination of Sublandlord's interest under the Master Lease due to Sublandlord's breach of the Master Lease, or (ii) Sublandlord's failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain Master Landlord's performance.

 7.6 Joint and Several Liability. Subtenant hereby agrees to be and remain jointly and severally liable with Sublandlord to Master Landlord for the payment of rent pertaining to the Subleased Premises and for the performance of all of the Terms and provisions of the Master Lease pertaining to the Subleased Premises; provided, however, that Subtenant shall be liable to Master Landlord for rent only in the amount set forth in this Sublease.

 7.7 Master Landlord's Right to Enforce Terms of the Master Lease. Subtenant hereby agrees to comply with all terms of the Master Lease and hereby further agrees that Master Landlord shall have the right to enforce the Master Lease provisions directly against Subtenant, except that in no event shall Subtenant be responsible for payment of rent in excess of that which is payable by Subtenant to Sublandlord under this Sublease.

 ARTICLE 8 - CASUALTY AND INSURANCE

 8.1 Damage. If the Subleased Premises shall be damaged by any cause, Subtenant shall give prompt written notice thereof to Sublandlord.

 8.2 Damage from Certain Causes. Except as otherwise provided herein and except for any loss or damage caused by Sublandlord's negligence, willful misconduct or breach of this Sublease, Sublandlord shall not be liable to Subtenant, or to Subtenant's

 employees, agents, Subtenants, licensees, invitees, or visitors, or to any other person whomever, for any loss, or any damage to or loss of any property or death or injury to any person occasioned by or arising out of (a) the condition or design of or any defect in or failure to repair the Subleased Premises or the Property or any part or component thereof (including without limitation any mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning or other systems or equipment); or (b) acts or omissions of Master Landlord, other Subtenants or occupants in the Property or of any other persons whomever; or (c) burglary, theft, vandalism, malicious mischief, fire, act of God, public enemy, criminal conduct, court order or injunction, riot, strike, insurrection, war, requisition or order of governmental authority, or any other matter beyond the reasonable control of Sublandlord; or (d) repair or alteration, other than the Initial Alterations, of any part of the Subleased Premises or Property; or (e) violation or default by Master Landlord under the Master Lease (including without limitation, slow down, interruption, failure or cessation of any service to be provided by Master Landlord); provided, however, that Sublandlord will assign any right it possesses to insist on full performance by Master Landlord, to Subtenant upon Subtenant's written request.

 8.3 Indemnification.

 (a) Subtenant's Indemnification of Sublandlord. Subtenant hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and hold Sublandlord harmless from and against all fines, suits, claims, demands, loss, cost, liability, judgments and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and any liability Sublandlord may have to Master Landlord) of every kind in connection with any loss, or any death or injury to person or damage to or loss of property to the extent caused by any act, omission or neglect of Subtenant, its employees, agents, Subtenants, or licenseesor arising out of the occupancy or use of the Subleased Premises by Subtenant, except to the extent caused by the negligence, willful misconduct or breach of this Sublease or the Master Lease by Sublandlord or the negligence, willful misconduct or breach of the Master Lease by Master Landlord.

 (b) Sublandlord's Indemnification of Subtenant. Sublandlord hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and hold Subtenant harmless from and against all fines, suits, claims, demands, losses, costs, liabilities, judgments and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) of every kind in connection with any loss, or any death or injury to person or damage to or loss of property to the extent caused by any act, omission, neglect, or breach of this Sublease by Sublandlord, its employees, agents, officers, other subtenants, licensees.

 8.4 Waiver of Recovery. Anything in this Sublease to the contrary notwithstanding, Sublandlord and Subtenant severally waive any claim in its favor against the other or the other employees or agents (REGARDLESS OF CAUSE, INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OF THE OTHER OR ITS AGENTS OR EMPLOYEES, AND STRICT LIABILITY OF ANY KIND) for loss of or damage to any of its property located on or constituting a part of the Subleased Premises or the Property, by reason of fire or the elements, or any other cause to the extent that such loss or damage is insured, or required to be insured by the Terms of this Sublease.

 8.5 Insurance.

 (a) Subtenant shall obtain and keep in full force and effect during the Term of this Sublease commercial general liability insurance insuring against any liability arising out of the use and occupancy of the Subleased Premises by Subtenant, with a combined single limit of not less than five million dollars ($5,000,000.00). Sublandlord and Master Landlord shall be named as additional insureds on all such insurance policies. The provisions of Section 13 of the Master Lease, with respect to the amount of insurance coverage required, shall not be applicable to Subtenant.

 (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 8.5(a), so long as Subtenant is the City of Seattle, and to the extent permitted under applicable Law, Subtenant may self-insure for some or all of Subtenant's insurance otherwise required to be carried under this Section 8.5. If Subtenant so self-insures, then, for purposes of Section 8.2, above, any loss or damage to Subtenant, Subtenant's property, its leasehold interest, its business, the Subleased Premises or any additions or improvements thereto or contents thereof which would have been covered by Subtenant's insurance otherwise required to be carried hereunder shall be deemed covered by and recoverable by Subtenant under valid and collectible policies of insurance.

 ARTICLE 9 - ASSIGNMENT OR SUBLEASE

 Subtenant may assign this Sublease or sublet the whole or any part of the Subleased Premises, without the prior written consent of Sublandlord, to any parent, subsidiary or affiliate of Subtenant, which shall include an assignment of Subtenant's interest under this Sublease as the consequence of a merger of Subtenant into or with another entity. Otherwise, Subtenant shall not assign this Sublease to any other third party by operation of law or otherwise (collective, a "Transfer") without the prior written consent of Sublandlord (whose consent shall not be unreasonably withheld) and Master Landlord (whose consent shall be governed by the Terms of the Master Lease), and in no event shall any such Transfer release Subtenant or any guarantor from any obligation or liability hereunder unless Sublandlord's and Master Landlord's written consents expressly release Subtenant upon assignment. Any attempted Transfer in violation of the foregoing restrictions shall be void and of no effect. Sublandlord shall retain fifty percent (50%) of all sublease or assignment profits in excess of rent due to Sublandlord under this Sublease after first deducting any tenant improvement costs, legal fees and brokerage fees for a non-affiliate Transfer. Subtenant agrees that Sublandlord shall have the right to exercise a recapture right given to Master Landlord in the Master Lease in the event of any proposed Transfer by Subtenant hereunder.

 ARTICLE 10 - DEFAULT AND REMEDIES

 10.1 Default by Subtenant. Each of the following shall be deemed to be an "Event of Default" by Subtenant under this Lease: (1) Subtenant shall fail to pay when due any installment of rent or any other payment required pursuant to this Lease and the failure continues for five (5) days after written notice from the Sublandlord of such failure to pay; (2) Subtenant shall file a petition or be adjudged bankrupt or insolvent under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy or insolvency law or admit that it cannot meet its financial obligations as they become due, or a receiver or trustee shall be appointed for all or substantially all of the assets of Subtenant; (3) Subtenant shall make a transfer in fraud of creditors or shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors; (4) Subtenant shall do or permit to be done any act which results in a lien being filed against the Subleased Premises or the Property and the lien is not released by payment or bonding within fifteen (15) days after Subtenant first has notice thereof; or (5) the liquidation, Termination or dissolution of Subtenant; or (6) Subtenant shall be in default of any other Term, provision or covenant of this Lease, other than those specified in clauses (1) through (5) above, and such default is not cured within thirty (30) days after written notice thereof to Subtenant; provided, that if the default is a potential non-economic event of default under the Master Lease, Subtenant shall only have the grace or cure period, if any, afforded Sublandlord under the Master Lease, less five (5) days.

 10.2 Remedies for Subtenant's Default. If there shall be an Event of Default as set forth in Section 10.1 above, Sublandlord shall have the rights and remedies set forth in the Master Lease. In addition, Sublandlord shall have the following rights and remedies in the event of a Subtenant default:

 If there shall be an Event of Default as set forth in Section 10.1 above, Sublandlord may treat the occurrence of any one or more of such events as a breach of this Sublease, and at its option may have any one or more of the following described remedies without any additional notice or demand, in addition to all other rights and remedies provided at law or in equity or elsewhere in this Sublease:

 (a) Sublandlord may declare the Sublease terminated and enter upon and take possession of the Subleased Premises, by picking or changing locks if necessary, and lock out, expel or remove Subtenant and any other person who may be occupying all or any part of the Subleased Premises without being liable for any claim for damages, and relet the Subleased Premises on behalf of Subtenant and receive the rent directly by reason of the reletting. Subtenant agrees to pay Sublandlord on demand any deficiency that may arise by reason of any reletting of the Subleased Premises; further, Subtenant agrees to reimburse Sublandlord for any expenditures made by it in order to relet the Subleased Premises, including, but not limited to, remodeling and repair costs.

 (b) Without declaring the Lease Terminated, Sublandlord may enter upon the Subleased Premises, by picking or changing locks if necessary, without being liable for any claim for damages, and do whatever Subtenant is obligated to do under the Terms of this Sublease. Subtenant agrees to reimburse Sublandlord on demand for any expenses that Sublandlord may incur in effecting compliance with Subtenant's obligations under this Sublease. Sublandlord shall not be liable for any damages resulting to Subtenant from effecting compliance with Subtenant's obligations under this Sublease WHETHER CAUSED BY THE NEGLIGENCE OF SUBLANDLORD OR OTHERWISE.

 (c) Sublandlord may Terminate this Sublease, in which event Subtenant shall immediately surrender the Subleased Premises to Sublandlord, and if Subtenant fails to surrender the Subleased Premises, Sublandlord may, without prejudice to any other remedy which it may have for possession or arrearages in rent, enter upon and take possession of the Subleased Premises, by picking or changing locks if necessary, and lock out, expel or remove Subtenant and any other person who may be occupying all or any part of the Subleased Premises without being liable for any claim for damages. Subtenant agrees to pay on demand the amount of all loss and damage which Sublandlord may suffer for any reason due to the Termination of this Lease under this Section 10.2, including (without limitation) loss and damage due to the failure of Subtenant to maintain and/or repair the Subleased Premises as required hereunder and/or due to the inability of Sublandlord to relet the Subleased Premises on satisfactory Terms or otherwise.

 Sublandlord's exercise, following a default by Subtenant under this Sublease, of any right granted hereunder or under any applicable law to lock out or change the locks securing the Subleased Premises shall not impose upon Sublandlord any duty to notify Subtenant of the name and address or telephone number of the individual or company from whom a new key may be obtained, nor shall Sublandlord have any duty to provide Subtenant with a new key or any other means of access to the Subleased Premises.

 In addition to any other remedy set forth in this Sublease, if Sublandlord has made rent concessions of any type or character, or waived any Base Rent, and Subtenant fails to take possession of the Subleased Premises on the Rent Commencement Date or otherwise defaults at any time during the Term of this Sublease, the rent concessions, including any waived Base Rent, shall be cancelled and the amount of the Base Rent or other rent concessions shall be due and payable immediately as if no rent concessions or waiver of any Base Rent had ever been granted. A rent concession or waiver of the Base Rent shall not relieve Subtenant of any obligation to pay any other charge due and payable under this Sublease, including, without limitation, any sum due under Section 2.3 of this Sublease. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Sublease to the contrary, this Sublease may be terminated by Sublandlord only by written notice of such Termination given by Sublandlord to Subtenant, and no other act or omission of Sublandlord shall be construed as a Termination of this Sublease.

 (d) In no event shall any of the foregoing remedies available to Sublandlord be interpreted to eliminate Sublandlord's duty to mitigate damages to the best of its ability, as measured by a commercially reasonable standard.

 10.3. Default by Sublandlord. If Sublandlord should fail to perform or observe any covenant, Term, provision or condition of this Sublease required to be performed or observed by Sublandlord, Sublandlord shall have a period of thirty (30) days after written notice thereof is given by Subtenant to Sublandlord specifying the failure, to commence to cure the failure; provided, however, that if the nature of Sublandlord's obligations is such that more than thirty (30) days are required for performance, then Sublandlord shall not be in default if Sublandlord commences performance within such thirty (30) day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 10.4 Remedies Cumulative. Except as may be otherwise specified herein, all rights and remedies of Sublandlord or Subtenant herein or existing at law or in equity are cumulative and the exercise of one or more rights or remedies shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to the exercise of any other.

 10.5 Notice to Mortgagees. Provided that Subtenant has received prior written notice of the name and address of such lender, Subtenant shall serve written notice of any claimed default or breach by Sublandlord under this Sublease upon any lender which is a beneficiary under any deed of trust or mortgage against the Subleased Premises, and no notice to Sublandlord shall be effective against Sublandlord unless such notice is served upon said lender; notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, Subtenant shall allow such lender the same period following lender's receipt of such notice to cure such default or breach as is afforded Sublandlord.

 ARTICLE 11 - SIGNAGE

 Subject to complying with all applicable laws, Subtenant shall have the right to Building standard interior signage at the Suite entrance and lobby directory at Sublandlord's sole cost and expense. Subtenant shall look to Master Landlord for any other signage rights and Sublandlord shall have no liability for providing such signage rights, provided, however, that Sublandlord shall reasonably cooperate with Subtenant to attempt to cause Master Landlord to comply with its obligations under the Master Lease.

 ARTICLE 12 - PARKING

 Sublandlord shall provide to Subtenant, from Sublandlord's allocation from the Master Landlord, at Subtenant's expenses, fourteen (14) unreserved parking spaces in the Building. Subtenant shall pay for such parking spaces, directly to Master Landlord or its parking vendor at the rate being charged by Master Landlord or its parking vendor from time-to-time. Subtenant shall look to Master Landlord for any other additional parking rights and Sublandlord shall have no liability for providing such parking rights, provided, however, that Sublandlord shall reasonably cooperate with Subtenant

 to attempt to cause Master Landlord to make available additional parking.

 ARTICLE 13 - MISCELLANEOUS

 13.1 Estoppel Certificates. Subtenant agrees to furnish, from time to time, within ten (10) days after receipt of a request from Sublandlord, a statement certifying such matters pertaining to this Sublease as may reasonably be requested by Sublandlord, but only to the extent the statement is not disputed by Subtenant.

 13.2 Attorneys' Fees. In the event of any action or proceeding brought by either party under this Sublease against the other party hereto, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover from the other party all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, in such action or proceeding.

 13.3 Notices. All rent and other payments required to be made by Subtenant shall be payable to Sublandlord at Sublandlord's address set forth on the signature page hereof or at such other address as Sublandlord may specify from time to time by Notice to Subtenant. Whenever this Sublease requires or permits any consent, approval, notice, request or demand from one party to the other (collectively, "Notice"), such Notice must be in writing to be effective and shall be effective on the date of actual receipt of such Notice by the addressee or when the attempted initial delivery is refused or when it cannot be made because of a change of address of which the sending party has not been notified. The following shall, without limitation, be prima facia evidence of actual receipt of Notice by the addressee: (a) if mailed, by a United States certified mail return receipt, signed by the addressee or the addressee's agent or representative, (b) if by telegram, by a telegram receipt signed by the addressee or the addressee's agent or representative, or (c) if hand delivered, by a delivery receipt signed by the addressee or the addressee's agent or representative. The parties' respective addresses for delivery of any Notice shall be as set forth on the signature page hereof (or, in the case of Subtenant, at the Subleased Premises), or such other address within the continental United States as any party may have designated by Notice to the other.

 13.4 Submission of Sublease. Submission of this Sublease to Subtenant for signature does not constitute a reservation of space or an option to sublease. This Sublease is not effective until execution by and delivery to both Sublandlord and Subtenant.

 13.5 Waiver of Property Tax Protest and Appeal Rights. Subtenant waives all rights to protest the appraised value of the Subleased Premises or the Property or to appeal the same and further waives all rights to receive notices of reappraisal of the Subleased Premises or the Property.

 13.6 Sublandlord's Liability. Intentionally omitted.

 13.7 Security. Subtenant acknowledges that Sublandlord, because it is a national bank, has or may have guards or other security personnel or security systems. Such guards, security personnel and security systems are for Sublandlord's sole benefit. Sublandlord has no obligation to continue providing same and Sublandlord may make such changes in the provision thereof from time to time, as Sublandlord may desire. Subtenant acknowledges that Subtenant has no right to the benefit of such security personnel, guards or security systems, and Subtenant waives all claims against Sublandlord, its agents and/or employees based on or related to any failure to furnish security services, failure to furnish protection from crime or related matters.

 13.8 Brokers. Except for the obligation of Sublandlord, pursuant to a separate agreement between Sublandlord and Washington Partners, to pay a real estate commission, Sublandlord and Subtenant hereby indemnify and hold each other harmless against any loss, claim, expense or liability with respect to any commissions or brokerage fees claimed on account of the execution and/or renewal of this Sublease due to any action of the indemnifying party.

 13.9 Severability. If any provision of this Sublease or the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the remainder of this Sublease and the application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby and shall be enforced to the greatest extent permitted by law.

 13.10 Successors. This Sublease shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Sublandlord and Subtenant and their respective heirs, personal representatives, successors and assigns (subject to Article 9).

 13.11 Interpretation. The captions appearing in this Sublease are for convenience only and in no way define, limit, construe or describe the scope or intent of any Section. The laws of the State of Washington and applicable United States federal law shall govern the validity, performance and enforcement of this Sublease. This Sublease shall not be construed more or less favorably with respect to either party as a consequence of the Sublease or various provisions hereof having been drafted by one of the parties hereto.

 ARTICLE 14 - AMENDMENT AND LIMITATION OF WARRANTIES

 14.1 Entire Agreement. IT IS EXPRESSLY AGREED BY SUBTENANT, AS A MATERIAL CONSIDERATION FOR THE EXECUTION OF THIS SUBLEASE, THAT THIS SUBLEASE, WITH THE SPECIFIC REFERENCES TO EXTRINSIC DOCUMENTS, IS THE ENTIRE AGREEMENT OF THE PARTIES; THAT THERE ARE, AND WERE, NO VERBAL REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES, UNDERSTANDINGS, STIPULATIONS, AGREEMENT OR PROMISES PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS SUBLEASE OR OF ANY EXPRESSLY MENTIONED EXTRINSIC DOCUMENTS THAT ARE NOT INCORPORATED IN WRITING IN THIS SUBLEASE. THE FOLLOWING EXHIBITS ARE ATTACHED HERETO AND ARE INCORPORATED HEREIN BY THIS REFERENCE (CHECK IF APPLICABLE):

 EXHIBIT "A" - Subleased Premises

 EXHIBIT "B" - Master Lease

 EXHIBIT "C" - Work Letter Agreement

 EXHIBIT "D" - Transferable Personal Property

 14.2 Amendment. THIS SUBLEASE MAY NOT BE ALTERED, WAIVED, AMENDED OR EXTENDED EXCEPT BY AN INSTRUMENT IN WRITING SIGNED BY SUBLANDLORD AND SUBTENANT.

 14.3 Limitation of Warranties. SUBLANDLORD AND SUBTENANT EXPRESSLY AGREE THAT THERE ARE AND SHALL BE NO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, SUITABILITY, HABITABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR OF ANY OTHER KIND ARISING OUT OF THIS SUBLEASE, AND THERE ARE NO WARRANTIES WHICH EXTEND BEYOND THOSE EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS SUBLEASE.

 14.4 Waiver And Releases. SUBTENANT SHALL NOT HAVE THE RIGHT TO WITHHOLD OR TO OFFSET RENT OR TO TERMINATE THIS SUBLEASE EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED HEREIN. SUBTENANT WAIVES AND RELEASES ANY AND ALL STATUTORY LIENS AND OFFSET RIGHTS.

 [Signatures on Following Page]

 Sublandlord

 Bank of America N.A., Sublandlord's address:

 a national banking association

 By: Bank of America N.A.

 1001 4th Avenue, Suite 400

 Name: Seattle, Washington 98154

 Title: Attention: Corporate Real Estate Services

 Date: With copy to:

 Bank of America, N.A.

 Corporate Real Estate Services

 NC 1-023-03-03

 Charlotte, NC 28255-0001

 Attention: Lease Administration

 Subtenant

 City of Seattle, Subtenant's Address:

 a first class municipal corporation of the

 State of Washington

 By: City of Seattle

 Fleets & Facilities Department

 Name: Brenda Bauer 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5200

 P. O. Box 94689

 Title: Fleets & Facilities Director Seattle, WA 98124-4689

 Date: Attention: Property Management

 EXHIBIT A

[Subleased Premises](/~ordpics/115850_exa.pdf) (Requires Adobe Acrobat Reader.)

 EXHIBIT B [Master Lease ](/~ordpics/115850_exb.pdf) (Requires Adobe Acrobat Reader.)

 EXHIBIT C

 Work Letter Agreement

 This WORK LETTER AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is being entered into as of ___________ __, 2007 between BANK OF AMERICA, N. A., a national banking association, ("Sublandlord"), and the CITY OF SEATTLE, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, a first class municipal corporation of the State of Washington, ("Subtenant"), in connection with the execution of the Sublease between Sublandlord and Subtenant of even date herewith (the "Sublease") for the Subleased Premises at Bank of America Fifth Avenue Plaza, 800 Fifth Avenue, Seattle, WA 98104, as described in the Sublease.

 This Agreement is attached to and forms a part of the Sublease. Sublandlord and Subtenant hereby agree as follows:

 1. General.

 1.1 Purpose. The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth how Initial Alterations as referenced in the Sublease are to be constructed, who shall undertake the construction of Initial Alterations, and who will pay for construction of Initial Alterations and how and when such payment shall be made.

 1.2 Performance. Initial Alterations shall be constructed by Sublandlord pursuant to this Agreement. Sublandlord shall provide the Initial Tenant Improvement Allowance per the Sublease and pursuant to paragraph 12 hereof, and Sections 1.11 and 6 of the Sublease and Article XII of the Master Lease.

 1.3 Sublandlord's Representative. Sublandlord hereby appoints Donna Dethlefs, ("Sublandlord's Representative") to act as Sublandlord's Representative in all matters covered by this Agreement, and appoints an emergency alternate as set forth below. Sublandlord's Representative's contact information is as follows:

 Sublandlord's Representative:

 Donna Dethlefs

 1001 4th Avenue, Suite 400, Seattle, WA 98154

 (206) 358-5591 Fax #: (206) 358-0575

 donna.dethlefs@am.jll.com

 Sublandlord's Emergency Alternative Representative:

 Cindy Smith

 1001 4th Avenue, Suite 400, Seattle, WA 98154

 (206) 358-6645 Fax #: (206) 358-0175

 cindy.smith@am.jll.com

 1.4 Subtenant's Representative. Subtenant hereby appoints Don McDermott to act as Subtenant's Representative in all matters covered by this Agreement, and appoints an emergency alternate as set forth below. Subtenant's Representatives' contact information is as follows:

 Subtenant's Representative:

 Don McDermott

 P.O. Box 94689

 Seattle, WA 98124-4689

 (206) 615-0999

 don.mcdermott@seattle.gov

 Subtenant's Emergency Alternative Representative:

 Barbara Brannan

 P.O. Box 94689

 Seattle, WA 98124-4689

 (206) 684-0414

 barbara.brannan@seattle.gov

 2. Base Building. Subtenant has inspected and accepts the shell, base building and the existing improvements in the Subleased Premises in their "as is" condition, subject to the terms and conditions of the Sublease.

 3. Approvals.

 3.1 Approvals of Initial Alterations. The approvals shall be subject to the requirements of the Sublease and the Master Lease, and in particular, Article 6 of the Sublease and Article XII of the Master Lease. The term "Master Landlord" and "Landlord" are used interchangeably herein. Except as specifically stated otherwise in this Work Letter Agreement, approvals of initial alterations shall follow the procedures below.

 3.1.1 Approval of Submittal. Sublandlord shall approve or deny all matters pursuant to this Work Letter Agreement in writing within ten (10) business days of the date Subtenant makes such written request for approval.

 3.1.2 Re-Submittal and Approval. Subtenant shall have up to five (5) business days to resubmit a request for approval in the event the original request was denied by Sublandlord and Sublandlord shall have up to five (5) business days to approve or deny such resubmittal.

 3.2 Approval Items. Matters requiring mutual approvals shall include the following:

 a. Building Permits (if required)

 b. Architect

 c. Preliminary Space Plan

 d. Architectural and Engineering Final Plans and Specifications

 e. Substantial Revisions to Architectural, Engineering Plans and Specifications

 f. Any change order that results in a modification of the price of the Initial Alterations

 3.3 Deemed Approval: Approval shall only be deemed to have occurred if Approval is given in writing to the party seeking approval within the time period allowed for said approval as stated herein. If Sublandlord fails to give approval or denial in writing (with a written explanation of any reason for a denial of such approval) within fifteen (15) days after Subtenant submits its written request for approval then Sublandlord's approval shall be deemed denied.

 3.4 Denial of Approval. Sublandlord's denial of approval of any matter pursuant to this Work Letter Agreement shall be solely for reasonable and material reasons including (i) adverse effect on the building structure; (ii) possible damage to the building systems; (iii) non-compliance with applicable laws and codes; (iv) effect on the exterior appearance of the building, (v) unreasonable interference with the normal and customary business operations of the other tenants in the building, or (vi) the use of non-Building standard materials or layout requiring restoration at Sublease termination, unless Subtentent assumes such restoration responsibility.

 3.5 Time is of the Essence. Sublandlord and Subtenant hereby acknowledge that time is of the essence in the granting of necessary approvals and that each shall be liable to the other for damages incurred due to the failure of either party to perform in a timely manner as stated in the above paragraphs except where the delay is caused by conditions completely out of the control of either party and each party agrees that it shall provide a written response to the other party immediately upon determining that the other party has not acted in a timely manner. Sublandlord and Subtenant hereby agree that no approval shall be unreasonably withheld.

 4. Sublandlord's Review Responsibilities. Subtenant agrees and understands that (a) the review of all plans pursuant to this Agreement by Sublandlord is solely to protect the interests of the Sublandlord in the Premises and (b) Sublandlord shall not be the guarantor of, nor responsible for, the correctness or accuracy of any such plans or compliance of such plans with applicable laws or with the Master Lease.

 5. Subtenant's Plans.

 5.1 Architect and Space Planner. Sublandlord shall employ an architect and/or space planner selected by Subtenant and reasonably approved by Sublandlord. Sublandlord's approval shall be deemed given, if Sublandlord does not deny approval of the architect and/or spare planner within five (5) business days of written notification. If Sublandlord denies approval of the architect and/or space planner, Subtenant shall have five (5) business days from the date of denial to resubmit the name of an architect and/or space planner.

 Sublandlord shall have five (5) business days from receipt of the resubmitted notification to approve or deny, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 5.2 Plan Review. The architect shall prepare and submit to the Sublandlord, plans, specifications and drawings describing the Initial Alterations to the Subleased Premises. Subtenant and the architect shall be solely responsible for compliance of the leasehold improvements with the Master Lease and all applicable legal requirements, including without limitation building and fire codes.

 5.3 Preliminary Space Plan. The architect shall prepare and submit to Sublandlord for Sublandlord's approval, a

 layout of the Subleased Premises ("Preliminary Space Plan") (attached as Exhibit A to the Sublease), showing all demising walls, corridors, entrances, exits, doors, interior partitions, and the locations of, as applicable, all offices, conference rooms, computer rooms, mini- service kitchens, reception area, library, file rooms and work areas. Sublandlord shall provide final written approval no later than five (5) business days after the receipt of the Preliminary Space Plan. The final approved space plan is hereinafter referred to as the "Final Space Plan".

 5.4 Preliminary Drawings and Final Drawings. From the Final Space Plan, the architect shall prepare and submit to Sublandlord for Sublandlord's approval all one-eighth-inch (1/8) scale architectural, mechanical and electrical working drawings together with specifications necessary to complete all of the Initial Alterations (collectively the "Preliminary Drawings"). If Sublandlord objects to the Preliminary Drawings pursuant to paragraphs 3.4 and 4 hereof, Subtenant shall revise and re-submit Preliminary Drawings for Sublandlord's approval pursuant to Article XII of the Master Lease. The final approved drawings are hereinafter referred to as the "Final Drawings".

 6. Construction of Initial Alterations. Sublandlord shall cause the Initial Alterations to be constructed in substantial accordance with (a) the Final Drawings, (b) the Master Lease, and (c) all applicable legal and building code requirements, in a good and workmanlike manner, and lien free.

 6.1 Permits. In connection with Initial Alterations, Sublandlord shall, at Subtenant's cost and expense (subject to Sublandlord providing the Initial Tenant Improvement Allowance) file all drawings, plans and specifications, pay all fees and obtain all permits and applications from any authorities having jurisdiction; and Subtenant shall promptly obtain a permanent certificate of occupancy and all other approvals required of Subtenant to use and occupy the Premises and to open for business to the public prior to the partial or full occupancy of the Premises. A copy of the signed-off permits, certificates of occupancy and as- built drawings shall be provided to the Landlord.

 6.2 Approval. Pursuant to paragraphs 3.1 to 3.5, Sublandlord shall submit to Subtenant for Subtenant's approval, a list of contractors and/or subcontractors who will construct the Initial Alterations, to be deemed Sublandlord's Contractor. Sublandlord or Sublandlord's contractors and subcontractors shall be required to obtain from the building management, permission for transporting materials on service elevators and/or using any area outside the Subleased Premises for storage, handling or moving materials and equipment or for parking any vehicles. In addition, Sublandlord and its contractors and subcontractors shall comply with the Landlord's building guidelines applicable to construction of Initial Alterations.

 7. Waiver of Certain Remedies.

 7.1 Offsets. No sum payable to Subtenant as the result of any breach or default by Sublandlord under this Agreement shall be deducted from or offset against any rent or other sums payable under the Sublease, unless Sublandlord, in Sublandlord's discretion, consents thereto. In the event of a breach or default by Sublandlord, Subtenant shall have rights, recourse and remedies governed by the State of Washington in which the property is located.

 7.2 Consequential Damages. Sublandlord shall not be liable for consequential damages arising out of any breach or default under this Agreement, including, without limitation, loss of use or income from the building or the Premises or any equipment or facilities therein, delay or impact damages, whether incurred by Subtenant or any person claiming through or under Subtenant. Subtenant reserves its right to pursue remedies for such breach or default to the full extent of Washington State law.

 8. Assignment. This Agreement and Subtenant's rights hereunder shall not be assigned by Subtenant except to a permitted assignee of all of Subtenant's rights under the Sublease and any other purported assignment by Subtenant shall be null and void and of no force and effect. If Subtenant properly assigns Subtenant's rights hereunder, the assignee shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to Sublandlord an agreement in form and substance satisfactory to Sublandlord whereby the assignee shall assume the obligations of this Agreement on the part of Subtenant to be performed. Sublandlord shall not unreasonably withhold approval of such assignment.

 9. Notices. Any notice, or other communication shall be in writing and shall be given in the manner required by the notice provisions of the Sublease, unless otherwise stipulated herein, with a copy delivered to Sublandlord's Representatives or Subtenant's Representatives (as applicable) at their respective addresses as set forth herein.

 10. Conflicts and Conformity With Sublease. Any rights and obligations of Sublandlord and Subtenant relative to any matter not stated in this Agreement shall be governed by the Sublease. If there be any conflict between this Agreement and the Sublease, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. As used herein, all capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the same meaning as defined in the Sublease.

 11. Allowance/Payment for Initial Tenant Improvements.

 11.1 Allowance. As agreed in the Sublease and herein, all Initial Alteration costs shall be the Subtenant's responsibility, including building permit fees, architectural and engineering expenses and other expenses relating to construction of Initial Alterations to the extent that such costs exceed the Initial Tenant Improvement Allowance. However, Sublandlord shall provide an Initial Tenant Improvement Allowance as agreed to in Section 1.11 "Tenant Improvements and Allowances" of the Sublease. Subtenant understands that if the cost of the Initial Alterations, including without limitation any changes in Initial Alterations, exceeds the Initial Tenant Improvement Allowance, then Subtenant shall be solely responsible for all such costs in excess of the Initial Tenant Improvement Allowance, provided however, Subtenant will not be responsible for any excess costs incurred as a result of (i) change orders that were not approved by Subtenant, or (ii) construction delay caused by Sublandlord.

 11.2 Payment. Following the substantial completion of the Initial Alterations, Sublandlord shall provide Subtenant with copies of all invoices related to the Initial Alterations and, after the total cost thereof is determined, will invoice Subtenant for any costs in excess of the Initial Tenant Improvement Allowance. Subtenant shall pay such excess to Sublandlord within thirty (30) days of receipt of such invoice.

 12. Conformity with Master Lease. Sublandlord hereby agrees to use its best: efforts to facilitate the coordination with Master Landlord on any issues where the Master Lease stipulates terms and conditions which affect Subtenant's ability to complete Initial Alterations.

 Executed to be effective as of the date first above written.

 SUBLANDLORD

 Bank of America, N.A.,

 a national banking association

 By:

 Name:

 Title: SUBTENANT

 City of Seattle,

 a first class municipal corporation of the State of Washington

 By:

 Name: Brenda Bauer

 Title: Fleets & Facilities Department Director

 EXHIBIT D

 Transferable Personal Property

 * Breakroom furniture: (12) tables and (31) stack chairs

 * Office furniture: (4) sets of oak desks/credenzas

 * Conference room furniture: (1) conference table and (13) chairs

 * Cubicles: (32) Steelcase cubicle set-ups (panels and desks)

 * File cabinets: (42) Steelcase 2-drawer lateral and vertical cabinets

 * Task chairs: (38) Criterion chairs

 * Work tables: (4)

 * Refrigerators: (2)

 SUBLEASE BETWEEN CITY OF SEATTLE AND BANK OF AMERICA

 Page 23 of 25

```
