

********

**Council Bill Number: 115801**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department, amending a Quit Claim Deed granted by Puget Sound Sheet Metal Works on October 15, 1946 under Auditor's File No. 3618953 (P.M. #240418-4-301); and accepting an easement from Nicholson Machine and Technology Company.

**Status:** Retired April 21, 2008
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Licata)
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 11, 2006
   
**Committee:** Energy and Technology
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, DEEDS, CITY-LIGHT, HARBOR-ISLAND, INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICT

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord: 69799, 76560

**Fiscal Note:**115801

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department, amending a Quit Claim Deed granted by Puget Sound Sheet Metal Works on October 15, 1946 under Auditor's File No. 3618953 (P.M. #240418-4-301); and accepting an easement from Nicholson Machine and Technology Company.

 WHEREAS, the Quit Claim Deed pursuant to Ordinance No. 76560 is subject to the right of the grantor, its successors, and assigns to cross and recross the conveyed property "for the same length of time and to run concurrently with the easement granted by Puget Sound Sheet Metal Works to the City of Seattle, over and across the tract of land adjoining...on the west, and bearing even date herewith;" and

 WHEREAS, said easement dated October 15, 1946 by Puget Sound Sheet Metal Works was conveyed to the City of Seattle under Auditor's File No. 3618955; and

 WHEREAS, said easement "shall terminate only when the City of Seattle...shall cease to use said land as a right-of-way for transmission and/or distribution line purposes;" and

 WHEREAS, Nicholson Machine and Technology Company, as successor to Puget Sound Sheet Metal Works, requested that the right to cross and recross the conveyed property under the Quit Claim Deed shall be perpetual and shall not terminate; and

 WHEREAS, Nicholson Machine and Technology Company is willing to convey a second easement to the City of Seattle's City Light Department for an overhead and/or underground electric distribution facility; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of City Light is authorized to execute for and

 on behalf of the City of Seattle a Quit Claim Deed Amendment and Easement

 substantially in the form of Attachment 1.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2006, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2006.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Quit Claim Deed Amendment and Easement

 David Flores

 August 25, 2006

 SCL Nicholson ORD

 Version 2a

 1 QUIT CLAIM DEED AMENDMENT AND EASEMENT

 RETURN ADDRESS:

 Connie K. Haslam

 HELSELL FETTERMAN LLP

 1001 4th Ave., Suite 4200

 Seattle, WA 98154

 WASHINGTON STATE RECORDER'S COVER SHEET

 (RCW 65.04)

 Document Title(s) (or transactions contained therein)

 Quit Claim Amendment and Easement

 Reference Number(s) of Documents assigned or released:

 The Quit Claim Amendment and Easement amends Document No. 3618953

 Grantor(s) (Last Name first, then first name and initials)

 1. Nicholson Machine and Technology Company

 2. Seattle, City of

 Grantee(s) (Last name first, then first name and initials)

 1. Seattle, City of

 2. Nicholson Machine and Technology Company

 Legal description (abbreviated: i.e., lot, block, plat or section, township, range)

 PTN GOV LT 2, S-18-T24N-R4E

 Additional legal is on pages 7-9 of Document

 Assessor's Property Tax Parcel/Account Number

 Tax Account Number 182404906402

 The Auditor/Recorder will rely on the information provided on the form. The staff will not read the document to verify the accuracy or completeness of the indexing information provided herein.

 QUIT CLAIM DEED AMENDMENT AND EASEMENT

 This Quit Claim Deed Amendment and Easement is executed this ____ day of _______________, 2006, by and between the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation ("City"), and Nicholson Machine and Technology Company ("Nicholson").

 RECITALS

 Nicholson owns the real property legally described in Exhibit A and commonly known as 3670 East Marginal Way South, Seattle, Washington ("Nicholson Property").

 Nicholson's predecessor-in-interest, Puget Sound Sheet Metal Works Corporation, conveyed an easement to the City by instrument dated October 15, 1946 and recorded under No. 3618955 in King County, Washington, whereby the City was given an easement (the "City Light Easement") for the purposes therein described over the portion of the Nicholson Property legally described in said instrument.

 The City owns the real property legally described in Exhibit B (the "City Light Property"). The City Light Property is adjoined on the north, south and west by the Nicholson Property.

 Nicholson's predecessor-in-interest, Puget Sound Sheet Metal Works Corporation, conveyed the City Light Property to the City by quit claim deed dated October 15, 1946 and recorded under No. 3618953 in King County, Washington. The conveyance was made subject to the right of the grantor, its successors and assigns to cross and recross the City Light Property in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in said quit claim deed.

 The parties hereto wish to confirm and agree that the right of Nicholson and its successors and assigns to cross and recross the City Light Property shall be perpetual and shall not terminate, notwithstanding the City's termination or abandonment of the City Light Easement. The parties wish to amend the quit claim deed to reflect their agreement.

 In addition, the City wishes to acquire, and Nicholson is willing to grant the City, an easement over the property described in Exhibit C for purposes of installing, operating and maintaining electric distribution equipment, including the distribution equipment installed by the City in 2002 over the property. The parties further wish to make clear that Nicholson, its successors and assigns shall retain the right to cross and recross the property described in Exhibit C, and the parties shall cooperate and take reasonable measures to ensure that their respective activities do not interfere with the operations of the other party.

 AGREEMENT

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and benefits to be derived and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties do hereby agree as follows:

 1. Perpetual Crossing Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the quit claim deed recorded under No. 3618953 in King County, Washington, the right of Nicholson to cross and recross the City Light Property shall be perpetual and shall not terminate even if the City terminates or abandons the City Light Easement.

 2. Easement. Nicholson hereby conveys an easement to the City for the installation, construction, improvement, operation, maintenance and repair of overhead and/or underground electric distribution facilities at depths not exceeding 15 feet, consisting of poles with braces, guys and anchors, crossarms, transformers, ducts, vaults, manholes, conduits, wires, and other necessary appurtenances to make said electric distribution facilities an integrated electric system (collectively hereinafter the "Electric System"), over, upon, across and under, the property described in Exhibit C and illustrated in Exhibit D ("Second City Light Easement"), including and subject to the following:

 a. City's Right to Cross. The City shall have the right of ingress to and egress from the Second City Light Easement across the adjacent Nicholson Property for the purpose of installing, constructing, improving, operating, maintaining, repairing, removing and patrolling its Electric System.

 b. City's Right of Removal. The City shall have the right to remove at any time all or any part of its Electric System from the Second City Light Easement.

 c. City's Right to Trim Vegetation. The City shall have the right to cut and trim brush, trees or other plants standing or growing upon or adjacent to the Second City Light Easement that, in the opinion of the City, interfere with the maintenance or operation of the electric system, or constitute a menace or danger to said Electric System.

 d. Liability of City. The City shall be responsible, as provided by law, for any damages or injury to Nicholson resulting from the City's negligence in the installation, construction, operation and maintenance of said Electric System across, over, upon and under the Nicholson Property.

 e. Structures Within the Second City Light Easement. Nicholson agrees that, with the exception of all existing structures, no structure or fire hazards shall be erected or permitted within the Second City Light Easement area without prior written approval from the City; that no digging shall be permitted within the Second City Light Easement area which will in any manner disturb the electric facilities or their solidity or unearth any portion thereof; and that no blasting or discharge of any explosives will be permitted within fifty (50) feet of said facilities.

 f. Nicholson's Right to Cross. Nicholson shall retain the right at all times to cross and recross the Second City Light Easement, provided, however, that the City may temporarily restrict Nicholson's crossing rights across all or a portion of the Second City Light Easement when necessary for the installation, construction, improvement, operation, maintenance or repair of the Electric System. The City shall endeavor to conduct such work in a manner that allows a reasonable portion of the Second City Light Easement to remain available for crossing and recrossing by Nicholson. If it becomes necessary for the City to temporarily restrict all of the Second City Light Easement in order to perform such work, then, except in the case of an emergency, it shall provide Nicholson with reasonable notice of the pending closure. Nicholson shall provide the City with a contact number for such purpose.

 g. Non-Interference. Each party shall cooperate with the other party and take reasonable measures to ensure that their respective activities do not interfere with the other party's operations.

 h. Termination of Easement. The rights, title, privileges and authority granted by the Second City Light Easement shall continue and be in force until such time as the City shall permanently remove all of its Electric System from the property described in Exhibit C or shall permanently abandon said Electric System, at which time all such rights, title, privileges and authority granted by the Second City Light Easement shall terminate.

 3. Successors Bound. The parties' successors and assigns shall be fully bound by the terms of this agreement.

 4. Merger. There are no oral or other understandings between the parties relating to the subject matter of this agreement that are not contained in this writing.

 EXECUTED at Seattle, Washington this _____ day of ____________, 2006.

 NICHOLSON MACHINE AND TECHNOLOGY COMPANY

 By

 Printed Name:____________________

 Title:_____________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that ____________________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he is/she is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _________________________ of Nicholson Machine and Technology Company to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 DATED: ____________________

 Name (typed or printed):

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington

 Residing at

 My appointment expires:

 EXECUTED at Seattle, Washington this _____ day of ____________, 2006.

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 By

 Printed Name:_____________________

 Title:_____________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that ____________________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he is/she is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _________________________ of City of Seattle to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 DATED: ____________________

 Name (typed or printed):

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington

 Residing at

 My appointment expires:

 Exhibit A: Legal Description for Nicholson Property

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR NICHOLSON PROPERTY

 That portion of Government Lots 1 and 2, Section 18, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., records of King County, Washington, described as follows:

 BEGINNING at a point of intersection of the easterly line of a strip of land conveyed to Oregon and Washington Railroad Company by deed recorded in volume 587 of Deeds, page 474, under Recording No. 493783, in King County, Washington, with a line 695.885 feet south of the south line of West Spokane Street (now South Spokane Street);

 THENCE east 532 feet, more or less, to the easterly line of a tract of land conveyed to the City of Seattle, by deed recorded under Recording No. 2617408;

 THENCE southerly along said easterly line to the most southerly corner of said City of Seattle tract, the said southerly corner being on the west right of way line of a strip of land conveyed to the Northern Pacific Railway Company by deed recorded under Recording No. 346338;

 THENCE south along said west line 364.775 feet;

 THENCE continuing along said west line on a curve to the left with a radius of 1,042 feet, a distance of 251.990 feet to the most northerly corner of a triangular tract conveyed to Oregon and Washington Railroad Company by deed recorded in volume 587, page 474, under Recording No. 493783;

 THENCE southerly along the westerly line of said triangular tract 92.180 feet to a point 30 feet easterly of, measured at right angles to the production of the center line of Duwamish Avenue, as shown on Sheet No. 40 of the plat of Seattle Tide Lands;

 THENCE northwesterly along the northeasterly line of a strip of land conveyed to the Oregon and Washington Railroad Company by deed recorded in volume 587 of Deeds, page 474, under Recording No. 493783, records of King County, Washington, to the point of beginning;

 EXCEPT a tract of land conveyed to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation (Department of Lighting), by deed recorded October 17, 1946, executed by Puget Sound Sheet Metal Works, a corporation, under Recording No. 3618953, which excepted tract is described as follows:

 That portion of Government Lot 2, Section 18, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., records of King County, Washington, lying northeasterly of a line which is uniformly 30 feet northeasterly measured radially thereto from the northeasterly line of a strip of land conveyed to Oregon and Washington Railroad Company by deed recorded in volume 587 of Deeds, page 474, under Recording No. 493783, records of King County, Washington, and lying west of the west line of a strip of land conveyed to Northern Pacific Railway Company by deed recorded in volume 400 of Deeds, page 622, under Recording No. 346338, records of King County, Washington, and between lines which are parallel to and distant respectively, 1,049.995 feet and 1,089.995 feet south of the south line of West Spokane Street;

 EXCEPT that certain parcel described as follows:

 That portion of Government Lot 2, Section 18, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., records of King County, Washington, described as follows:

 BEGINNING at a point on the westerly line of the Northern Pacific Railway Company's right of way for its Colorado Avenue Line, distant 1,170 feet south from the south line of West Spokane Street;

 THENCE southerly along said westerly line to the most northerly corner of the triangular tract of land conveyed to Oregon-Washington Railroad-Navigation Company, by deed recorded under Recording No. 493783;

 THENCE southerly along the westerly line of said tract to a point distant 1 foot westerly, measured at right angles from said westerly right of way line;

 THENCE northerly parallel with said westerly right of way line to a point distant 1,170 feet south from said south line of West Spokane Street;

 THENCE east parallel with said south lines to the point of beginning.

 Situate in the County of King, State of Washington.

 - 2 -

 Exhibit B: Legal Description for City Light Property

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR CITY LIGHT PROPERTY

 That portion of Government Lot 2, Section 18, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., records of King County, Washington, lying northeasterly of a line which is uniformly 30 feet northeasterly, measured radially thereto, from the northeasterly line of a strip of land conveyed to Oregon and Washington Railroad Company by deed recorded in volume 587 of Deeds, page 474, under Recording No. 493783, records of King County, Washington, and lying west of the west line of a strip of land conveyed to Northern Pacific Railway Company by deed recorded in volume 400 of Deeds, page 622, under Recording No. 346338, records of King County, Washington, and between lines which are parallel to and distant respectively, 1,049.995 feet and 1,089.995 feet south of the south line of West Spokane Street.

 Situate in the County of King, State of Washington.

 Exhibit C: Legal Description for 13-Foot Second Easement to City Light

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR 13-FOOT SECOND EASEMENT TO CITY LIGHT

 A strip of land 13.00 feet in width over that portion of the following described property in Government Lot 2 lying between the easterly line of the Oregon and Washington Railway right-of-way and westerly of the Northern Pacific Railway right-of-way, and between lines which are parallel to and distant respectively, 1089.995 and 1102.995 feet south of the south line of West Spokane Street (now South Spokane Street):

 That portion of Government Lots 1 and 2, Section 18, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., records of King County, Washington, described as follows:

 BEGINNING at a point of intersection of the easterly line of a strip of land conveyed to Oregon and Washington Railroad Company by deed recorded in volume 587 of Deeds, page 474, under Recording No. 493783, in King County, Washington, with a line 695.885 feet south of the south line of West Spokane Street (now South Spokane Street);

 THENCE east 532 feet, more or less, to the easterly line of a tract of land conveyed to the City of Seattle, by deed recorded under Recording No. 2617408;

 THENCE southerly along said easterly line to the most southerly corner of said City of Seattle tract, the said southerly corner being on the west right of way line of a strip of land conveyed to the Northern Pacific Railway Company by deed recorded under Recording No. 346338;

 THENCE south along said west line 364.775 feet;

 THENCE continuing along said west line on a curve to the left with a radius of 1,042 feet, a distance of 251.990 feet to the most northerly corner of a triangular tract conveyed to Oregon and Washington Railroad Company by deed recorded in volume 587, page 474, under Recording No. 493783;

 THENCE southerly along the westerly line of said triangular tract 92.180 feet to a point 30 feet easterly of, measured at right angles to the production of the center line of Duwamish Avenue, as shown on Sheet No. 40 of the plat of Seattle Tide Lands;

 THENCE northwesterly along the northeasterly line of a strip of land conveyed to the Oregon and Washington Railroad Company by deed recorded in volume 587 of Deeds, page 474, under Recording No. 493783, records of King County, Washington, to the point of beginning;

 EXCEPT a tract of land conveyed to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation (Department of Lighting), by deed recorded October 17, 1946, executed by Puget Sound Sheet Metal Works, a corporation, under Recording No. 3618953, which excepted tract is described as follows:

 That portion of Government Lot 2, Section 18, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., records of King County, Washington, lying northeasterly of a line which is uniformly 30 feet northeasterly measured radially thereto from the northeasterly line of a strip of land conveyed to Oregon and Washington Railroad Company by deed recorded in volume 587 of Deeds, page 474, under Recording No. 493783, records of King County, Washington, and lying west of the west line of a strip of land conveyed to Northern Pacific Railway Company by deed recorded in volume 400 of Deeds, page 622, under Recording No. 346338, records of King County, Washington, and between lines which are parallel to and distant respectively, 1,049.995 feet and 1,089.995 feet south of the south line of West Spokane Street.

 (Said 13.00 feet wide strip is parallel, southerly and adjacent to said tract of land conveyed to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation (Department of Lighting) by Deed recorded October 17, 1946, executed by Puget Sound Sheet Metal Works, a corporation, under Auditor's File No. 3618953.)

 Situate in the County of King, State of Washington.

[Exhibit D: Illustration of 13-Foot Second Easement to City Light](/~ordpics/115801_exd.pdf) (Requires Adobe Acrobat Reader).

```
