

********

**Council Bill Number: 115816**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122339**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City's purchase of an interest in CASA Latina's new facility; removing a budget proviso restricting expenditure of an appropriation in the 2006 Budget; carrying forward the unexpended appropriation and funds from the 2006 Budget to the 2007 Budget of the Human Services Department; and authorizing the expenditure of the funds for purchase and acceptance of an easement with restrictive covenants from Casa Latina to provide for social and community services uses on the property at 317 17th Avenue South, Seattle, Washington for a period of seven years; all by a three- fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 12, 2007
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Conlin)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 21, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 21, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 29, 2007
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** NON-PROFIT-ORGANIZATIONS, BUILDINGS, OFFICE-FACILITIES, FUNDS, BUDGET, EASEMENTS, MEETINGS, EVENTS GEORGETOWN, MUSEUMS, INTERNATIONAL-DISTRICT

**Fiscal Note:**115816

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122339](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122339.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City's purchase of an interest in CASA Latina's new facility; removing a budget proviso restricting expenditure of an appropriation in the 2006 Budget; carrying forward the unexpended appropriation and funds from the 2006 Budget to the 2007 Budget of the Human Services Department; and authorizing the expenditure of the funds for purchase and acceptance of an easement with restrictive covenants from Casa Latina to provide for social and community services uses on the property at 317 17th Avenue South, Seattle, Washington for a period of seven years; all by a three- fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, CASA Latina: Centro de Ayuda Solidaria a los Amigos, a not- for-profit corporation ("CASA Latina"), is developing a new facility to provide valuable social and community services, including giving low-income persons access to educational and economic opportunities that will help lift them out of poverty; and

 WHEREAS, CASA Latina has entered an agreement to purchase the property at 317 17th Avenue South, Seattle, Washington to develop a social and community services facility; and

 WHEREAS, CASA Latina has conducted extensive community outreach in the Central Area neighborhood surrounding the new site, and has received considerable support from community members for CASA Latina's development of the site; and

 WHEREAS, the City has a public interest in ensuring that its citizens have access to economic and educational opportunities; and

 WHEREAS, the City has a public interest in ensuring that CASA Latina's development of the 317 17th Avenue South site contributes to the vitality of the neighborhood by promoting arts and culture, pedestrian safety, and crime prevention; and

 WHEREAS, the 2006 Adopted Budget appropriated $250,000 from the General Subfund to the Human Services Department for the purchase of public benefits at CASA Latina's new facility and included a proviso restricting the expenditure of those funds until authorized by a future ordinance; and

 WHEREAS, the Human Services Department has negotiated the purchase of an easement to provide for periodic uses of the facility by the City or its designees, together with social and community services restrictions on the use of the facility; and

 WHEREAS, CASA Latina has provided the City with a community outreach strategy, business and fundraising plans, and development and operating budgets for the new facility; and

 WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Mayor and City Council that $250,000 be expended for the purchase of an easement in the CASA Latina facility as described above, but the appropriation in the 2006 Budget has not carried forward to 2007, so that an increased appropriation in the 2007 Budget is required; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The restriction imposed by the following budget proviso, which limits spending of the 2006 Human Services Department appropriation for the CASA Latina project is lifted and it is no longer a restriction for any purpose including for Subsection #1b of Ordinance 121991:

 Department Green Proviso Description Budget Control Sheet Level

 Human Services #25-1-A-3 Prohibits expenditure Community Department of the CASA Latina Facilities BCL appropriation until (H30CF) authorized by a future ordinance.

 Section 2. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses to be incurred in 2007, but for which insufficient appropriations were made, the appropriation for the following in the 2007 Budget is increased from the fund shown, as follows:

 Item Fund Department Budget Control Level Amount

 1 Human Services Human Services Homeless Intervention and $250,000 Operating Fund Department Block Grant Administration (16200) BCL (H30CF)

 Section 3. The Director of the Human Services Department ("HSD Director") is authorized to spend the $250,000 appropriation referred to in Section 2 above to purchase and accept, on behalf of the City of Seattle, an Easement In Gross for Social and Community Services Facility Use on the property at 317 17th Avenue South ("Easement"), substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1. The HSD Director is further authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to enter into the Agreement for Purchase of Easement for Use of Social and Community Services Facilities at 317 17th Avenue South ("Agreement") substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 2. The HSD Director is authorized to make such additions, modifications or deletions to the Easement or Agreement, not including any increase in the amount to be paid by the City, as the HSD Director deems to be in the best interests of the City.

 Section 4. The HSD Director shall ensure that the Easement is recorded by the King County Recorder's Office.

 Section 5. The HSD Director is authorized to administer and manage the Easement and the Agreement, and the City's rights thereunder, and to enter into such agreements and execute such documents (including without limitation an escrow agreement), as the HSD Director deems necessary to effectuate the transaction contemplated by this ordinance.

 Section 6. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after the passage of the ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 7. In accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reason of the facts above stated, the foregoing appropriation is made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the City for which insufficient appropriations have been made due to causes which could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of the making of the 2007 Budget.

 Section 8. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of all the members of the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 President ____________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Form of EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICES FACILITY USE

 Attachment 2: Form of AGREEMENT FOR PURCHASE OF EASEMENT FOR USE OF SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICES FACILITIES

 Jill Simmons/JS

 AFTER RECORDING, MAIL TO:

 City of Seattle Human Services Department

 PO Box 34215

 Seattle WA 98124-4215 Attention: Community Facilities

 EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR SOCIAL AND

 COMMUNITY SERVICES FACILITY USE

 GRANTOR: CASA LATINA: CENTRO DE AYUDA SOLIDARIA A LOS AMIGOS, a Washington nonprofit corporation

 GRANTEE: The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation

 Legal Description:

 LOTS 7, 8, 9 AND 10, BLOCK 18, HILL TRACT ADDITION, ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF, RECORDED IN VOLUME 8 OF PLATS, PAGE 42, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON.

 Tax Parcel No.: 3319500655

 THIS EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICES FACILITY USE ("Easement") is executed this _____ day of ____________, 200_ by CASA Latina: Centro de Ayuda Solidaria a los Amigos, a Washington nonprofit corporation (together with its successors, "Grantor"), in favor of The City of Seattle ("Grantee" or "City").

 For and in consideration of TEN DOLLARS in hand paid and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Grantor hereby grants and warrants to Grantee a nonexclusive easement in gross, on the terms set forth below, in and over the real property located at 317 17th Avenue South, Seattle, in King County, Washington, and legally described as follows (together with the improvements now or hereafter thereon, the "Property"):

 LOTS 7, 8, 9 AND 10, BLOCK 18, HILL TRACT ADDITION, ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF, RECORDED IN VOLUME 8 OF PLATS, PAGE 42, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON.

 The easements and covenants herein are intended to run with the land and burden the Property described for the use and benefit of the Grantee and of its designees and the public to the extent described below, as follows:

 1. Purchase Agreement.

 The easements and covenants granted herein are made pursuant to that certain AGREEMENT Between Grantee and Grantor Regarding PURCHASE OF EASEMENT FOR USE OF SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICES FACILITIES dated as of ____________, 200_ (the "Purchase Agreement"), which is filed with the Seattle City Clerk and is incorporated herein by this reference. This Easement is intended to be construed so as to be consistent with the Purchase Agreement, but in case of conflict the terms of this Easement shall control.

 2. Definitions.

 The following underlined terms have the following meanings when used with initial capital letters in this Easement, unless the context clearly otherwise requires:

 Default: As defined in the Purchase Agreement.

 Easement: This Easement in Gross for Social and Community Services Facilities Use.

 Department: The City of Seattle Human Services Department, and any successor department or office.

 Grantee: The City of Seattle.

 Grantor: CASA Latina: Centro de Ayuda Solidaria a los Amigos, and its successors in interest in and to the Property.

 Low- and Moderate-Income Persons: Households, including individuals, with household incomes of less than 80% of the area median income, adjusted for household size, as determined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

 Outside Users: public and non-profit entities that provide benefits to residents of the City, and any other entities or individuals that may be approved as Outside Users by the Department.

 Partial Use Year: The period beginning on either (a) the first day of the Use Period or (b) the date of the City's demand for liquidated damages under the Purchase Agreement, and in either case ending on December 31 of the same calendar year, and the period beginning on the last January 1 of the Use Period and ending at the end of the Use Period.

 Property: Defined in granting clause above.

 Social and Community Services: Information, education, guidance, and assistance provided to individuals, families, or groups of people that promote the physical health or social or economic well-being of Low- and Moderate-Income Persons receiving services or their families. Also included in this definition are activities designed to promote the civic and cultural engagement of Low- and Moderate- Income Persons.

 Social and Community Services Facility or Facility: The facility to be developed, constructed, or remodeled on the Property, consisting of approximately 7,000 to 8,000 square feet, including, generally, administrative office space, classrooms, program delivery space, and an interior assembly area for day worker clients.

 Use Period: The period beginning on the date when the construction of the Social and Community Services Facility is completed, the Social and Community Services Facility is open, and the Social and Community Services Facility is available for client and public use, and ending seven (7) years later, unless extended pursuant to Section 11 of this Easement.

 Use Rights: Grantee's rights to access and use of the Social and Community Services Facility for Grantee or its designees, as described and subject to the conditions set forth in this Easement.

 3. Negative Easement and Covenants.

 3.1 The Grantor covenants and agrees that from the date hereof through the end of the Use Period, Grantor shall not use the Property, or permit the use of the Property, for any purpose except:

 A. The development and construction of a social and community service facility as generally described above; and

 B. The operation of such facility as a social and community services center.

 Up to 2,000 square feet of the social and community services center may be used exclusively for the administrative offices of CASA Latina.

 3.2 After completion of the Social and Community Services Facility, and for the duration of the Use Period, the Facility will be used solely to provide or support Social and Community Services. Such services may be provided by Grantor or other not-for-profit organizations, governments, public agencies, and others.

 3.3 Grantor shall allow Outside Users seeking to provide Social and Community Services access to the Social and Community Services Facility to the greatest extent possible, given the needs of Grantor for the space in order to provide such services. To the extent that the Grantor is not itself actively using the Social and Community Services Facility for Social and Community Services, Grantor shall so notify the City and use its best efforts to inform Outside Users that the space is available to Outside Users that provide such services, such notice shall include but not be limited to advertising the facilities on the Grantor's website. Grantor may charge a fee to Outside Users seeking use of space to provide such services, but any fee must be at the lowest rate possible while covering the reasonably allocable costs of operating and managing the Facility, including, but not limited to, janitorial, utilities, insurance, taxes, and on- site staffing costs, should be affordable to Outside Users whose clients are Low- and Moderate-Income Persons, and in any event must not be more than the same cost charged for use of space to other community groups as allowed under Section 3.4 below.

 3.4 Grantor may allow use of all or part of the Facility by community groups, and may charge fees for such use, but any fee shall not be more than the amount necessary to cover the reasonably allocable costs of operating and managing the Facility, including, but not limited to, janitorial, utilities, insurance, taxes, and on- site staffing costs. Such use shall not interfere with the Grantor's ability to provide Social and Community Services.

 3.5 Grantor may establish procedures that guide use by Outside Users, including times of operation, codes of conduct, and other policies necessary to efficiently and fairly operate the Social and Community Services Facility. Grantor may require that Outside Users of the Social and Community Services Facility enter a use agreement provided that the use agreement is designed to ensure safe and equitable access to the Social and Community Services Facility, to limit damage to the Social and Community Services Facility, and to limit Grantor's risk in operating and managing the Social and Community Services Facility.

 3.6 Grantor is solely responsible for maintaining, managing, and operating the Social and Community Services Facility according to its own discretion, subject to the terms of this Easement. The Grantor shall maintain the Social and Community Services Facility in good condition and repair, and in compliance with all applicable laws, codes, permits and regulations.

 4. Use Easement - City Benefit.

 For the duration of the Use Period, the Grantor grants and warrants to the City the rights to use the Social and Community Services Facility for itself or its designated Outside Users described in this Section.

 4.1 The City or its designee shall be entitled to use of the Social and Community Services Facility four (4) times per calendar year free of charge for the duration of the Use Period, according to the following terms and conditions:

 A. The City shall give the Grantor at least thirty (30) days advance notice of the date and time when the City or its designee requires use of the Social and Community Services Facility. Such notice shall include the name and contact person of the designated entity to use the space; the hours during which the space is required; what portion of the Social and Community Services Facility is required, if not all; and the nature and purpose of the use.

 B. The City, its designee, their invitees, and members of the public in the case of uses open to the public, shall have access through such portions of the building as necessary, including elevator, to enter and leave the Social and Community Services Facility. Parking, if available on-site, shall be available for those attending the City-designated use.

 C. The duration of each use shall not exceed 5 consecutive hours, which may be wholly or in part in the evening outside normal working hours, at the City's discretion. If the use requires that the building be open after normal closing time for Grantor, the City or its designee, respectively, will be responsible for monitoring the building entrance and for securing the building entrance upon completion of the use.

 D. The City or its designee may place temporary signs no earlier than seven (7) days prior to the City's use on the Property in order to inform the public of the use and direct the public to the appropriate parts of the Social and Community Services Facility.

 E. The Grantor shall ensure that the Social and Community Services Facility is in clean, safe and usable condition prior to each free use.

 4.2 The number of free uses will be prorated, rounding up, for all Partial Use Years.

 4.3 For purposes of free uses under this Section 4, any policies or guidelines applicable to Outside Users or to use of the Social and Community Services Facility, and any use agreement required by Grantor, shall be subject to the written approval of the City, in its discretion, and if not so approved shall not be a condition to any free use.

 4.4 The City or its designee, respectively, shall be responsible for leaving the Social and Community Services Facility in substantially its prior condition after each use, and for any damage to the Property caused by the use, but the City shall not be responsible for any condition or damage caused in the course of use by Outside Users.

 5. Use Easement - Public Benefit.

 Notwithstanding the negative easement described in Section 3, the Grantor, for the duration of the Use Period, shall provide for the following social and community services uses of the Property:

 5.1 Grantor shall cause the development, installation and maintenance of permanent art on the Property that will be accessible to the public and that will celebrate Seattle's cultural history.

 5.2 Grantor shall develop, in conjunction with the surrounding community, a community services program on the Property that contributes directly to the vitality, well-being and safety of the surrounding community. The community services program shall commence within 12 calendar months following beginning of the Use Period. The program shall remain in operation at the Social and Community Services Facility for the duration of the Use Period. However, Grantor may evaluate the program for effectiveness, and may revise or redesign the program to better serve the community upon written approval from the City.

 5.3 Grantor shall ensure that the site design of the Property is developed according to Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED) standards. Additional developments of the Property during the Use Period shall also comply with CPTED standards. The National Institute of Crime Prevention defines CPTED as "the proper design and effective use of the built environment that can lead to a reduction in the fear and incidence of crime and an improvement in the quality of life." The goal of CPTED is to reduce opportunities for crime that may be inherent in the design of structures or in the design of neighborhoods. Grantor shall consult with appropriate City staff to ensure that CPTED features are incorporated into the Facility's design.

 6. Indemnity.

 Grantor shall have control over and responsibility for the development, operation and maintenance of the Property and the Social and Community Services, including the Social and Community Services Facility. As a result, Grantor agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the City of Seattle, its elected officials, officers, employees and agents harmless from any and all damages, claims, liabilities, losses, and/or costs of any kind, including attorney's fees, that arise in any way from the development, construction, financing, operation, maintenance or use of the Property, including without limitation any City use, City designee's use, and/or public use under this Easement including, but not limited to, City use of the Social and Community Services Facility and surrounding grounds and property. This clause applies to claims, liabilities, costs, losses, and/or damages of any kind notwithstanding any acts, omissions or negligence of the City or its officers, officials, employees, contractors or agents; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed as requiring Grantor to indemnify the City against liability for bodily injury or damage to property caused by or resulting from the sole negligence of the City or of any of its officers, elected officials, employees, or agents, and further provided, that if RCW 4.24.115 (or successor provision) shall apply to any claim for any such damage or injury, then to the extent required by such statute, (1) this indemnity shall not apply in case of any liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused or resulting from the sole negligence of the City, its agents or employees, and (2) in case of liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from the concurrent negligence of (a) the City or its agents or employees, and (b) Grantor or its agents or employees, this indemnity shall apply only to the extent of Grantor's negligence. The indemnification obligation set forth in this section shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Easement.

 For purposes of this Section Grantor waives, solely with respect to City, its immunity under RCW Title 51, Industrial Insurance. Grantor and City acknowledge that this waiver has been specifically negotiated and that City would not have entered into the Purchase Agreement absent this waiver.

 THE PARTIES CERTIFY BY THEIR INITIALS BELOW THAT THIS INDEMNIFICATION PROVISION WAS INDIVIDUALLY NEGOTIATED.

 Grantor: __________ City: _____________

 7. Insurance

 7.1 Grantor shall maintain at all times during the Use Period the following insurance:

 A. All risk property insurance, including earthquake, on the building in which the Facility is located. The amount of insurance shall be not less than the current replacement cost of the building as established upon each annual insurance policy renewal. The City of Seattle shall be an additional insured and loss payee as its interest may appear.

 B. General (premises) liability insurance on the Property with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 each occurrence bodily injury and property damage combined single limit. The City of Seattle shall be an additional insured for primary and non- contributory limits of liability.

 7.2 The insurance described in paragraphs 7.1 A and B above shall be placed with insurers having A.M. Best's ratings of not less than A- and VII and shall not be cancelled without thirty (30) days prior written notice to the City, except ten (10) days as respects non- payment of premium.

 7.3 A copy of all insurance required herein shall be provided to the Department no later than seven (7) days after execution of this Easement. Grantor shall also provide the City with documentation of the above insurance policies on an annual basis in a method to be determined by the City.

 8. Priority.

 This Easement shall have priority over any and all liens, encumbrances, leases, subleases, or other interests in the burdened property, except as may be expressly agreed in writing by the Grantee. The Grantor shall, at its sole cost and expense, obtain any and all consents and/or subordinations of other interests in the Property, including the subordination of the rights of any mortgagees, lessees, sublessees, successors and assigns as may be necessary to assure the Grantee its rights under this Easement are and remain free and clear of all liens, exceptions, encumbrances or other interests affecting the rights of the Grantee under this easement, except as expressly approved by Grantee in writing.

 9. Burden and Benefit.

 The easements granted under this Easement run with the land and the rights, duties, covenants, restrictions, agreements, limitations and obligations herein created shall constitute covenants running with the land and burden the Property, and all such easements, covenants, restrictions, agreements, limitations and obligations contained herein shall be binding upon the successors in interest and assigns of the Grantor. Grantor shall include, in any agreement for transfer or lease of the Property, express requirements that the transferee or lessee comply with the terms of this Easement, but no such provision shall be necessary in order for such party to be bound, and no such provision shall relieve the Grantor of any responsibility or liability under this Easement or the Purchase Agreement. This Easement shall inure to the benefit of the City, and solely to the extent that the City shall have designated another entity to exercise use rights hereunder, shall inure to the benefit and be enforceable by such entity. Except as expressly stated in this Section, this Easement is not intended to create any legal rights or interests in parties other than the City.

 10. Nondiscrimination.

 Grantor shall comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle, including but not limited to Chapters 14.04, 14.06, and 14.10 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), as they may be amended; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 Grantor further agrees that with respect to the Social and Community Services Facility it shall not engage in, nor permit, any act or practice that would be prohibited by any such law, regulation, rule or ordinance but for the existence of any present or future exemption therein, or other limit on the effect thereof, that is based on the type of organization, character, mission or beliefs of Grantor or of any lessee or sublessee of the Social and Community Services Facility.

 11. Damage Or Destruction.

 If the Property or Social and Community Services Facility shall be damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty when the City or its designee shall have Use Rights remaining, then Grantor shall restore or rebuild such Social and Community Services Facility if sufficient insurance proceeds are available, and the Use Rights shall apply to such rebuilt or restored Facilities, and the Use Period shall be extended by a period equal to the time that Use Rights under this Easement were not available. In the alternative, if the Social and Community Services Facility is not rebuilt or restored, or if such building or restoration does not commence within 24 months of the damage or destruction, Grantor shall pay the City an amount equal to the liquidated damages as determined under Section 12, computed as if Default and demand for payment thereof had occurred on the date of damage or destruction, with interest from that date. After receipt of such payment in cleared funds, the City shall, within a reasonable time, record an instrument releasing this Easement.

 12. Liquidated Damages

 12.1 The parties understand and agree that the City's ability to obtain value from the Easement granted is conditioned upon the development and construction of the Property and the completion, opening and availability for use and occupancy of the Social and Community Services Facility. From the nature of this Easement, it would be impracticable and extremely difficult to fix the actual damages sustained as a result of the failure of the Grantor to complete or make available the Social and Community Services Facility, or from use of the Property for purposes contrary to the terms of the Easement. As a result, the parties agree that the City shall have the right to recover, at its option, liquidated damages in the amounts set forth herein, which amounts the parties agree are a reasonable estimate of the damage to the City, and are intended to fairly measure the loss to the City and not to be punitive in nature.

 12.2 In the event that the Grantor fails to complete the Social and Community Services Facility or otherwise fails to cause the Use Period to commence by January 1, 2012, Grantor agrees to pay the City on demand liquidated damages in the amount of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000), or the amount equal to the total of any purchase money already paid by the City under the Purchase Agreement, whichever is less, and in either case plus interest. Interest shall accrue from the date of the purchase of the Easement until the date of payment at the rate applied during the same period of time to the participating funds of the Consolidated Cash Portfolio of the City of Seattle.

 12.3 Additionally, in the event of Default after the beginning of the Use Period and prior to the expiration of the Use Period, Grantor agrees to pay the City on demand liquidated damages in the amount of the Thirty-Five Thousand Seven Hundred Dollars ($35,700) for each year remaining on the Use Period (prorated for any Partial Use Year based upon the number of free uses not yet used in that year) plus interest on that amount, accrued as described in Section 12.2.

 12.4 After the City's demand for and receipt in full of liquidated damages in cleared funds, the City shall, within a reasonable time, record an instrument terminating this Easement.

 12.5 The City may, at its option, set off any liquidated damages under this Section against any amount otherwise payable or distributable by the City to Grantor, whether or not in relation to this Easement or the Property.

 13. Compliance With Law.

 Grantor shall comply at its sole expense with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter, Municipal Code, and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 14. Applicable Law; Venue.

 This Easement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in the Superior Court for King County.

 15.

 Duration; Termination.

 Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the provisions hereof shall be in effect from the date hereof until the end of the Use Period, or until the City shall execute and record in the real property records of King County an instrument expressly terminating this Easement. If the Use Period shall not commence, all the terms hereof shall be in effect in perpetuity, unless and until the City shall record such an instrument of termination.

 Dated this _____ day of _________, 200_.

 CASA LATINA: CENTRO DE AYUDA SOLIDARIA A LOS AMIGOS

 (Grantor)

 By:

 Name: Hilary Stern

 Title: Executive Director Accepted: THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:_____________________________

 Name:__________________________

 Title:___________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _______________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that she signed this instrument, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute the instrument as the _______________ of CASA LATINA: CENTRO DE AYUDA SOLIDARIA A LOS AMIGOS, the Washington nonprofit corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged it to be the free and voluntary act of said corporation, for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 DATED: ____________________.

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at

 Print Name:

 My commission expires:

 ATTACHMENT 1

 Attachment 1 to Ordinance: Form of EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICES FACILITY USE- Page 11 of 11

 Page 1 of 3

 AGREEMENT FOR PURCHASE OF EASEMENT FOR USE OF SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICES FACILITIES

 This Agreement is entered into as of the ___ day of ____________, 200_ by and between The City of Seattle ("City" or "Grantee"), a first class city of the State of Washington, acting by and through its Human Services Department ("HSD"), and Casa Latina: Centro de Ayuda Solidaria a los Amigos ("Grantor"), a Washington non- profit corporation.

 1. RECITALS

 1.1 Whereas, Grantor is in the process of securing a site for its administrative offices, programs, and Day Workers' Center at 317 17th Avenue South ("Property"), and

 1.2 Whereas, the City desires to acquire an easement in and over the Property for access and use by the City, its designees, and the public, with related covenants regarding the use, operation and maintenance of the Property:

 NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:

 2. DEFINITIONS

 The following underlined terms have the following meanings when used in this Agreement, unless the context clearly otherwise requires:

 2.1 Agreement: This Agreement between the City of Seattle and Grantor including all exhibits.

 2.2 Default: Any of the events or circumstances described as a Default in Section 7 or Section 17 hereof.

 2.3 Department: The City of Seattle Human Services Department, and any successor department or office.

 2.4 Easement: The Easement in Gross for Social and Community Services Facilities use to be granted by Grantor pursuant to this Agreement, substantially in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit A.

 2.5 Easement Term: The period that begins on the date the Easement is granted under this Agreement and ends when the Use Period ends or on any earlier date when the Easement is terminated according to its terms.

 2.6 Grantee: The City of Seattle.

 2.7 Grantor: CASA Latina: Centro de Ayuda Solidaria a los Amigos, a Washington non-profit corporation.

 2.8 Social and Community Services Facility: The facility to be developed, constructed, or remodeled on the Property, consisting of approximately 7,000 to 8,000 square feet, including, generally, administrative office space, classrooms, program delivery space, and an interior assembly area for day worker clients.

 2.9 Low- and Moderate-Income Persons: Households, including individuals, with household incomes of less than 80% of the area median income, adjusted for household size, as determined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

 2.10 Social and Community Services: Information, education, guidance, and assistance provided to individuals, families, or groups of people that promote the physical health or social or economic well-being of Low- and Moderate-Income Persons receiving services or their families. Also included in this definition are activities designed to promote the civic and cultural engagement of Low- and Moderate- Income Persons.

 2.11 Partial Use Year: (1) The period beginning on any of the following: (a) the first day of the Use Period, or (b) the date of the City's demand for liquidated damages under Section 20 hereof, and in any such case ending on December 31 of the same calendar year; and (2) the period beginning on the last January 1 of the Use Period and ending at the end of the Use Period.

 2.12 Property: The land generally located at 317 17th Avenue South, Seattle, Washington, and legally described on Exhibit A hereto, and all improvements and fixtures now or hereafter thereon, including without limitation the entire building to be known as the Social and Community Services Facility.

 2.13 Use Period: The period beginning on the date when the construction of the Social and Community Services Facility is completed, and the Social and Community Services Facility is open and available for client and public use, and ending seven (7) years later, except as it may be extended pursuant to Section 12 hereof.

 2.14 Use Rights: Grantee's rights to access and use of the Social and Community Services Facility for Grantee or its designees, as described and subject to the conditions set forth in Exhibit A.

 3. EFFECTIVE DATE

 This Agreement shall be effective when fully executed and delivered by the parties, which may be in separate counterparts.

 4. PURCHASE AND GRANT OF EASEMENT IN GROSS FOR CITY AND COMMUNITY USE OF AND ACCESS TO MEETING FACILITIES.

 Grantor agrees to sell and convey to the City, and the City agrees to buy from Grantor, subject to the conditions herein, for the sum of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000), an Easement in Gross, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, for use of and access to the Social and Community Services Facility, and restricting the use of the Property to social and community services.

 5. CLOSING AND CONDITIONS

 5.1. The purchase and sale of the Easement shall be completed, after satisfaction of all conditions to the City's obligation set forth herein, at the offices of an escrow agent, acceptable to the City, handling the Grantor's purchase of the Property, simultaneously with the closing of such purchase. The Grantor shall give the City at least 5 days' advance notice of the intended date of closing and shall deliver into escrow, prior to such date, a duly executed and acknowledged counterpart of the Easement together with all real estate excise tax affidavits and other documents and funds required (other than the purchase price hereunder) to complete the purchase of the Property and cause the recording of the Easement, and reasonable escrow instructions consistent with this Agreement. Upon written notice that all such documents and funds have been deposited in escrow, the City will deposit in escrow a signed counterpart of the Easement and the purchase price hereunder, together with reasonable escrow instructions consistent with this Agreement. Grantor shall be responsible for all costs, fees and taxes in connection with the closing of the sale of the Easement, including without limitation real estate excise taxes and recording charges.

 5.2. The following are conditions precedent to the City's obligation to complete the purchase of the Easement:

 A. The Grantor shall have provided evidence satisfactory to the City that the Grantor will be able to complete the CASA LATINA Day Workers' Center on the Property, including the Social and Community Services Facility, and pay all costs thereof, so that the Property will be subject to no liens except as may be permitted in writing by the City, and except property tax liens.

 B. The Grantor shall provide evidence that the Grantor has begun constructive involvement with the surrounding community to ensure that its operations are consistent with the community's needs, such as participation in the East Precinct Crime Prevention Council and other community-based organizations.

 5.3. Unless all conditions in Section 5.2 are satisfied, or waived in writing by the City, no later than December 31, 2007, or if the Grantor's purchase of the Property is not completed by such date for any reason other than failure of the City to perform its obligations hereunder, the City shall have the right, by written notice to Grantor, to cancel this Agreement, in which case neither party shall have any obligation to the other hereunder. All of the above conditions are solely for the benefit of the City and may be waived by the City's Director of Human Services, in her sole discretion.

 6. DEVELOPMENT OF SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICES FACILITY.

 Grantor shall be solely responsible for developing, constructing, maintaining, managing, and operating the Social and Community Services Facility according to its own discretion, subject to the conditions of this Agreement and the Easement.

 7. COMMENCEMENT OF THE USE PERIOD

 At the time of negotiations for this Agreement, the Grantor expects to complete the construction on the Property and open the Social and Community Services Facility for no later than December 31, 2009. In any case, the Grantor shall cause the Use Period to commence no later than January 1, 2012. Grantor's failure to meet this deadline will be a Default, unless the City, at its discretion, agrees in writing to delay the commencement of the Use Period.

 8. CONSTRUCTION, TAXES, MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION RESPONSIBILITIES AND COST

 Grantor shall have sole responsibility for construction, maintenance and operation of the Property and the Social and Community Services Facility. This responsibility includes, but is not limited to, the payment of any and all taxes and construction costs, and any costs associated with the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Social and Community Services Facility, and the Property. The City will not be responsible for construction, maintenance, or operation of the Property in general, nor will the City be responsible for any costs associated with or arising from the Use Rights other than any fees that may be owed by the City for the City's own use of space, to the extent such fees are allowed by the Easement.

 9. DEPARTMENT OVERSIGHT/AUDIT

 9.1 The Department shall have the right to monitor and oversee Grantor's compliance with the requirements and conditions of this Agreement. Grantor shall submit to the Department an annual report using a form developed by the City on the use of the Social and Community Services Facility. In addition, Grantor, upon request from the Department and within five (5) days of such request, shall provide the Department with reasonable access to any additional information, records, and facilities that would assist the Department in monitoring Grantor's compliance with this Agreement and the Easement.

 9.2 Grantor shall maintain books, records, documents and other evidence of accounting procedures and practices which sufficiently and properly reflect all direct and indirect costs of any nature expended in connection with the operation and management of the Social and Community Services Facility. Upon request from the Department and within five (5) days of such request, these records shall be subject at all reasonable time to inspection, review or audit by personnel duly authorized by the Department, the City, the Office of the State Auditor, and other officials so authorized by law, rule, regulation or contract.

 10. INSURANCE

 Grantor shall maintain at all times during the life of this Agreement the following insurance:

 10.1 All risk property insurance, including earthquake, on the Property. The amount of insurance shall at all times be not less than the then current replacement cost of the improvements on the Property as established upon each annual insurance policy renewal. The City of Seattle shall be an additional insured and loss payee with respect to the Easement as its interest may appear.

 10.2 General (premises) liability insurance on the Property with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 each occurrence bodily injury and property damage combined single limit. The City of Seattle shall be an additional insured under an endorsement acceptable to the City, for primary and non-contributory limits of liability.

 10.3 The insurance described in sections 10.1 and 10.2 above shall be placed with insurers having A.M. Best's ratings of not less than A- and VII and shall not be cancelled without thirty (30) days prior written notice to the City, except ten (10) days as respects non- payment of premium.

 10.4 A copy of all insurance required herein shall be provided to the Department no later than seven (7) days after execution of this Agreement. Grantor shall also provide the City with documentation of the above insurance policies on an annual basis in conjunction with the annual report set out in Section 9.1 hereof.

 11. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION

 If the Social and Community Services Facility shall be damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty then Grantor shall restore or rebuild the Social and Community Services Facility if sufficient insurance proceeds are available, and the Use Rights granted pursuant to the Easement shall apply to such rebuilt or restored Social and Community Services Facility, and the Easement Term and Use Period each shall be extended by a period equal to the time that Use Rights under this Easement were not available. In the alternative, if the Social and Community Services Facility is not rebuilt or restored, or if such building or restoration does not commence within 24 months of the damage or destruction, Grantor shall pay the City an amount equal to the liquidated damages as determined under Section 20 hereof, computed as if Default and demand for payment thereof had occurred on the date of damage or destruction, with interest from that date. After receipt of such payment in cleared funds, the City shall, within a reasonable time, record an instrument releasing the Easement, and this Agreement shall terminate.

 12. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

 Grantor represents and warrants as follows:

 12.1 Grantor is a Washington not-for-profit corporation duly organized and in good standing in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington; and

 12.2 Grantor has the right, power and authority to grant the Easement and to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement; all requisite actions of Grantor to enter, deliver and perform this Agreement and the Easement and to authorize the execution by the person signing on behalf of Grantor have been taken; and the Easement, when executed and delivered by such person, shall be valid and binding on the Property, and the covenants therein binding upon the Grantor.

 12.3 Neither the grant of the Easement, nor any provision of this Agreement and Easement is in conflict with any provision of any other agreement or instrument by which Grantor is bound or to which the Property is subject (including but not limited to any debts that are secured by the Property), nor shall the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement and the Easement constitute an event of default under any such agreement or instrument.

 13. TRANSFER, LEASE, RENTAL OR PERMISSION FOR USE OF FACILITY

 If the Grantor transfers the Property, or leases, rents or otherwise permits any person to use the Social and Community Services Facility in any manner whatsoever, Grantor shall include such provisions as may be required so that the transferee or other such person shall be bound to comply with the terms of the Easement, as applicable to the portion of the Property involved, and in the case of a transfer of all or substantially all of the Property, shall cause the transferee to assume all obligations of Grantor under this Agreement, but in any case Grantor shall remain bound by this Agreement and the Easement and shall not be released from any of Grantor's obligations hereunder. Whether or not so provided in any agreement for transfer of the Property, this Agreement shall be binding upon the successors in interest and assigns of the Grantor.

 14. RECORDING AND PRIORITY

 The Easement shall be duly recorded with King County. Grantor warrants and covenants that the Easement shall have priority over all encumbrances on the Property.

 15. NONDISCRIMINATION

 Grantor shall comply, and cause all contractors and subcontractors working on the Property to comply, with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle, including but not limited to Chapters 14.04, 14.06, and 14.10, 20.42, and 20.45 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), as they may be amended and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 16. DISPUTE RESOLUTION

 If any dispute(s) may arise under this Agreement, the parties shall attempt to resolve the dispute(s) through amicable negotiations between the Department and Grantor. If such parties do not agree upon a resolution within 14 days after the first date when a party gave notice to the other of the existence of an alleged breach that is the subject of the dispute, or of the existence of any other dispute, then unless the parties shall have otherwise agreed in writing, either party shall have the right to commence such proceedings as it deems appropriate to resolve the dispute. Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow additional time for cure of any breach prior to the existence of a Default or to provide a defense to any action to enforce this Agreement or the Easement.

 17. DEFAULT BY GRANTOR AND REMEDIES

 17.1 If Grantor fails to perform when required any obligation hereunder or in the Easement, or otherwise breaches any term hereof or thereof, the City may provide written notice to Grantor, specifying the nature of the breach and the reasonable number of days (but in any event the City shall not be required to allow more than sixty (60) days) after the date of the notice within which such breach must be cured. Unless Grantor fully cures all breaches specified in such notice within the time allowed, Grantor shall be in Default.

 17.2 If any provision hereof or in the Easement specifies that an event or circumstance is a Default, then such event or circumstance shall be a Default without notice, or after the notice specified in that provision, as applicable.

 17.3 In case of Default by Grantor, the City may exercise remedies as specified in Sections 19 or 20 below, or under any applicable provision of the Easement. In addition to or in lieu of the foregoing, the City shall be entitled to all remedies permitted from time to time by the laws of the State of Washington. The City's rights and remedies hereunder are not exclusive, but cumulative, and the City's exercise of any right or remedy due to Grantor's failure to perform any covenant or condition of this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of, or alter, affect or prejudice any other right or remedy that the City may have under this Agreement or by law or in equity.

 18. DEFAULT BY CITY AND REMEDIES

 If, within 30 days after Grantor shall have timely satisfied all conditions to the City's obligation for payment hereunder, the City shall not have tendered to Grantor full payment hereunder, then Grantor may either (1) terminate this Agreement by written notice to the City within 30 days, in which case neither party shall have any liability or obligation hereunder; or (2) pursue any remedy available at law or in equity for enforcement of this Agreement, provided that the City shall not be liable for damages or any other monetary remedy in excess of the total price stated hereunder, plus interest as may be allowed by law.

 19. TERMINATION

 19.1 This Agreement shall survive the execution and delivery of the Easement and shall continue in effect until the earliest to occur of:

 (i) The expiration of the Easement Term; or

 (ii) if the Grantee elects to claim liquidated damages after Default in accordance with Section 20 hereof, the date on which Grantee receives full payment of all liquidated damages.

 19.2 The City may terminate this Agreement in the event that, prior to payment by the City hereunder, Grantor is in Default.

 20. LIQUIDATED DAMAGES

 20.1 The parties understand and agree that the City's ability to obtain value from the Easement granted is conditioned upon the development and construction of the Property and the completion, opening and availability for use and occupancy of the Social and Community Services Facility. From the nature of this Agreement, it would be impracticable and extremely difficult to fix the actual damages sustained as a result of the failure of the Grantor to complete or make available the Social and Community Services Facility, or from use of the Property for purposes contrary to the terms of the Easement. As a result, the parties agree that the City shall have the right to recover, at its option, liquidated damages in the amounts set forth herein, which amounts the parties agree are a reasonable estimate of the damage to the City, and are intended to fairly measure the loss to the City and not to be punitive in nature.

 20.2 In the event that the Grantor fails to complete the Social and Community Services Facility or otherwise fails to cause the Use Period to commence by the date required herein, Grantor agrees to pay the City on demand liquidated damages in the amount of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000), or the amount equal to the total of any purchase money already paid by the City, whichever is less, and in either case plus interest. Interest shall accrue from the date of the purchase of the Easement until the date of payment at the rate applied during the same period of time to the participating funds of the Consolidated Cash Portfolio of the City of Seattle.

 20.3 Additionally, in the event of Default after the beginning of the Use Period and prior to the expiration of the Use Period, Grantor agrees to pay the City on demand liquidated damages in the amount of the Thirty-Five Thousand Seven Hundred Dollars ($35,700) for each year remaining on the Use Period (prorated for any Partial Use Year based upon the number of free uses not yet used in that year) plus interest on that amount, accrued as described in Section 20.2.

 20.4 After the City's demand for and receipt of liquidated damages in cleared funds, the City shall, within a reasonable time, record an instrument terminating the Easement, and this Agreement shall be terminated.

 20.5 The City may, at its option, set off any liquidated damages under this Section against any amount otherwise payable or distributable by the City to Grantor, whether or not in relation to this Agreement or the Property.

 21. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW; INDEMNITY

 21.1 Grantor shall comply at its sole expense with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter, Municipal Code, and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof (all of the foregoing are referred to as "applicable laws"). Grantor shall require all contractors and subcontractors working on the Property to comply with all applicable laws, including without limitation, if any work on the Property is a public work under Washington law or is subject to contracting or labor standards resulting from any funding for the development of the property, all applicable contracting and labor standards.

 21.2 Grantor represents and warrants that any activities in connection with the development of the Property prior to this Agreement have been in compliance with all applicable laws.

 21.3 Grantor shall defend and indemnify the City and its officers and employees from and against any claim, demand, liability or loss resulting from the failure of Grantor or of any contractor or subcontractor to comply with applicable laws, including without limitation any applicable laws regarding public works.

 21.4 This Section 21 shall survive termination of this Agreement.

 22. APPLICABLE LAW; VENUE

 This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in the Superior Court for King County.

 23. HEADINGS

 The headings used in this Agreement are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 24. NOTICES AND REPORTS

 Any notices or reports required or permitted hereunder shall be effective when hand delivered during normal business hours or two business days after mailed, postage prepaid, to a party at the addresses set forth below, or such other addresses as the parties may provide to each other by written notice:

 If delivered to the City of Seattle:

 City of Seattle - Human Services Department

 Seattle Municipal Tower

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5800

 Seattle, WA 98124-4215

 Attention: Community Facilities Manager

 If mailed to the City of Seattle:

 City of Seattle - Human Services Department

 PO Box 34215

 Seattle, WA 98124-4215

 If mailed or delivered to Grantor:

 CASA Latina

 220 Blanchard Street

 Seattle, Washington 98121

 25. EXHIBITS

 The following exhibits are incorporated by reference and are made a part of this Agreement:

 Exhibit A

 Easement in Gross for Social and Community Services Facilities Use, including Legal Description of the Property

 26. ASSIGNMENT; NO THIRD PARTY RIGHTS

 This Agreement is personal to each of the parties hereto and neither party may assign or delegate any of its rights or obligations hereunder without first obtaining the consent of the other party. Nothing herein shall confer any rights or remedies on any person or entity other than the parties hereto.

 27. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

 This Agreement and the exhibits attached hereto and forming a part hereof, are all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. No verbal agreements or conversations between any officer, agent, associate or employee of the City and any officer, agency, employee or associate of the Grantor shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in this Agreement.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement this ______ day of __________, 200_, by having their representatives affix their signatures below.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By

 Patricia McInturff,

 Director of The Human Services Department

 CASA LATINA: CENTRO DE AYUDA SOLIDARIA A LOS AMIGOS

 By___________________________________

 Hilary Stern, Executive Director

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for The City of Seattle)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ______________, , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared __________________________, known to me to be the ____________________of the Human Services Department of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in the certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 STATE OF )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for Grantor)

 COUNTY OF )

 On this _____ day of ______________, , before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared ________________, known to me to be the Executive Director of the Casa Latina, Centro De Ayuda Solidaria A Los Amigos, the not-for-profit corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the day and year in this certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 Exhibit A

 (See Attachment 1 to Ordinance)

 ATTACHMENT 2

 DRAFT

 Attachment 2 to Ordinance: Form of AGREEMENT FOR PURCHASE OF EASEMENT FOR USE OF SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICES FACILITIES -page 11 of 13

 DRAFT-3-1-04

```
