

********

**Council Bill Number: 115834**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122351**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the acquisition of approximately 4.0 acres of property composed of uplands, banks and submerged lands of Slip 4 ("the Property"), an arm of the Lower Duwamish Waterway, from Crowley Marine Services, Inc. and its related entities; authorizing a Purchase and Sale Agreement and acceptance of a Special Warranty Deed for the Property; and placing the Property under the jurisdiction of Seattle Public Utilities.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 5, 2007
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 13, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 12, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Slip 4 Clean-up, Lower Duwamish Superfund Site

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 26, 2007
   
**Committee:** Environment, Emergency Management and Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, DUWAMISH-WATERWAY, ENVIRONMENTAL-CLEANUP, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, CITY-LIGHT, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION-AGENCY

**Fiscal Note:**115834

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122351](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122351.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the acquisition of approximately 4.0 acres of property composed of uplands, banks and submerged lands of Slip 4 ("the Property"), an arm of the Lower Duwamish Waterway, from Crowley Marine Services, Inc. and its related entities; authorizing a Purchase and Sale Agreement and acceptance of a Special Warranty Deed for the Property; and placing the Property under the jurisdiction of Seattle Public Utilities.

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle ("the City") has taken the lead in the investigation and cleanup of contaminated sediments in the Slip 4 Early Action Area ("Slip 4 EAA") of the Lower Duwamish Superfund Site, as authorized by Ordinance 121590, which was passed by the Seattle City Council on September 13, 2004 and signed by the Mayor on September 22, 2004;

 WHEREAS, the City, as authorized by Ordinance 121590, has entered into an Administrative Settlement Agreement and Order on Consent (ASAOC) for Removal Action with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"), for the cleanup of the Slip 4 EAA; and

 WHEREAS, the City and King County have entered into a cost-sharing arrangement

 for the investigation and cleanup of the Slip 4 EAA; and

 WHEREAS, the cost of the cleanup work will be reduced by at least 1.5 million dollars if future navigational dredging of the Slip 4 EAA can be avoided; and

 WHEREAS, City purchase of the Property will prevent future navigational dredging, expedite the cleanup, restore natural habitat within the Slip 4 EAA, and provide potential for recreational opportunities such as wildlife viewing and kayaking; and

 WHEREAS, the cleanup alternative selected by EPA and described in EPA's Action Memorandum for a Non-Time-Critical Removal Action at the Slip 4 Early Action Area, dated May 5, 2006, is protective of human health and the environment and includes significant restoration of habitat within the Slip 4 EAA; and

 WHEREAS, the alternative selected by EPA requires purchase of the Property by the City, and

 WHEREAS, the EPA selected alternative has significant public support; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Seattle Public Utilities is authorized to acquire either by purchase or by eminent domain, the property legally described in Exhibit A to Attachment 1 (the "Property") for an acquisition price of not to exceed Five Hundred and Fifty Thousand Dollars ($550,000.00), and other costs required for the City to obtain title and rights to the Property, in the amount of approximately $6,000.

 Section 2. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities is authorized to execute a Purchase and Sale Agreement for the Property (substantially in the form as attached to this Ordinance as Attachment 1) and such other documents as the Director deems necessary to consummate the acquisition of the Property.

 Section 3. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities is authorized to accept and record a Special Warranty Deed to the Property. The Property thus acquired shall be placed under the jurisdiction of Seattle Public Utilities.

 Section 4. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance that is taken after passage of this ordinance but prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 List of Attachments:

 Attachment 1 -- Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement, with Exhibits A-E:

 Exhibit A - Property Description

 Exhibit B - Permitted Title Exceptions

 Exhibit C - Limited Release Agreement

 Exhibit D - Limited Indemnity Agreement

 Exhibit E - Construction Access Options

 Stephen Karbowski/srk

 SPUSlip4ORD

 February 23, 2007

 Version #5a

 1

 REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 THIS REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made as of the ___ day of _______________, 2007, by THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), a Washington municipal corporation, EIGHTH AVENUE TERMINALS, INC., a California corporation, formerly known as Pacific Terminals, Inc. (collectively known as "PTI"), and CROWLEY MARINE SERVICES, INC. ("Crowley"), a Delaware corporation. The real property that is the subject of this Agreement is located in King County, Washington and is legally described in the attached Exhibit A (hereafter the "Property"). The Property is a portion of the parcel known as Revised Slip #4 and a portion of the parcel known as Parcel D, which parcels were created by Lot Line Adjustment recorded under Recording No. 9212019002, records of King County, Washington. Crowley owns Parcel D and PTI owns Revised Slip #4.

 Section 1. Purchase Price. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, PTI and Crowley shall sell and City shall buy the Property for a price of FIVE HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS ($550,000) (the "Purchase Price") payable as follows:

 1.1 Deposit. Within five (5) business days of the execution of this Agreement by all parties, City shall open an escrow account with Chicago Title Insurance Company located at 701 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3400, Seattle, WA 98104 (hereafter "Escrow Agent"), and deliver to Escrow Agent a deposit of FIFTY-FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($55,000) (the "Deposit") together with a fully executed copy of this Agreement. Escrow Agent shall place the Deposit in an interest-bearing account for the benefit of the City and shall apply or disburse the Deposit as provided in this Agreement.

 1.2 Remainder of Purchase Price. The balance of the Purchase Price shall be payable in cash, certified funds, or wire transfer at Closing.

 Section 2. Title. Each of PTI and Crowley shall convey good, marketable, and insurable title to the portion of the Property which it owns to the City by special warranty deed, subject to the liens, encumbrances, defects, easements, leases, conditions, covenants, agreements, releases, rights, and restrictions listed on the attached Exhibit B and any others accepted in writing by the City (collectively referred to as "Permitted Title Exceptions").

 Section 3. Title Insurance. Title to the Property shall be insured under an ALTA owner's title insurance policy issued pursuant to the preliminary commitment for title insurance from Chicago Title Insurance Company, under order number 1210101 (the "Commitment"), subject only to the Permitted Title Exceptions. If any additional title exceptions are reported after the date of this Agreement, and if the exception(s) are not acceptable to the City, the City shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by written notice to Crowley and PTI within 30 days after receipt of the new exception(s) and in that event the Deposit shall be returned to the City. If the City does not elect to terminate this Agreement, the new exception(s) shall become Permitted Title Exceptions.

 Section 4. Pier Responsibilities

 4.1 Pier. The legal description of the Property in Exhibit A includes a portion of a pier located on and over a portion of the Property up to the face of the bulkhead along the bank of the slip underneath the pier. In acquiring the Property, the City is also acquiring ownership of the pier and pilings located on the Property, and the City agrees to be responsible for all maintenance, repair and/or removal of the portions of the pier which it owns in accordance with all applicable institutional controls or requirements imposed by the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") or the Washington State Department of Ecology ("Ecology") or that are necessary to implement and/or maintain any CERCLA or MTCA remedy involving the Property. Crowley agrees to be responsible for all maintenance, repair and/or removal of the bulkhead itself; provided, however, that the City shall be responsible for and shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend Crowley and PTI against any property damage, personal injury, or penalties, including reasonable attorney's fees, to the extent arising from damage to the bulkhead caused by the acts or omissions of the City or its contractors, whether during pier maintenance, repair and/or removal work, and implementation of any CERCLA or MTCA remedy involving the Property through completion of the Slip 4 Early Action Area Removal Action; however, the City shall not be responsible for and shall not indemnify Crowley and PTI against property damage, personal injury or penalties to the extent arising from damage to the bulkhead that is caused by the acts or omissions of Crowley or PTI.

 Crowley agrees that prior to Closing, it will disconnect or relocate power and water utilities currently located at or under portions of the pier that the City will own and shall notify the City when this work has been completed so that demolition of these utilities can be safely performed in conjunction with demolition of the City's portion of the pier.

 Section 5. Access and Temporary Occupancy.

 5.1 Upland Access and Temporary Occupancy. Crowley acknowledges that the City will need access and temporary occupancy of a portion of Crowley's property to perform construction and removal work (including pre-construction planning, surveying and inspection work) required by EPA pursuant to the Administrative Settlement Agreement and Order on Consent for Slip 4 Removal Action ("ASAOC") (collectively the "Removal Work"). In accordance with the terms described in this Section 5, Crowley is committed to cooperating with the City to negotiate with existing Crowley tenants to allow for reasonable and timely access to the City for the Removal Work.

 Following execution of this Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement, Crowley and the City will work together in good faith with the existing tenants (Alaska Logistics and UPRR) to negotiate an access agreement for the areas identified in Exhibit E ("Construction Access Options") that is acceptable to Crowley, Crowley's tenants, and the City ("Access Agreement"), and, at that time, shall be added to this Agreement as Exhibit F. Subject to approval by existing tenants, the Parties agree that the Access Agreement will include the following provisions:

 5.1.1 The Parties agree that to the extent practical to allow for execution of the Removal Work, the City access and staging area footprint will be limited to the boundaries shown on either of the Construction Access Options, Exhibit E;

 5.1.2 Subject to the rights of the existing tenants, Crowley will agree to provide the City and its contractors reasonable and timely access to its property for pre-construction planning, surveying, and inspection work;

 5.1.3 City will provide at least 90 days advance notice of: (a) the estimated date of commencement of the construction portion of the Removal Work, (b) the approximate boundaries of the access area and the details of the staging, loading and transportation plan for the area, and (c) the estimated duration of the construction portion of the Removal Work and to the extent possible, the estimated duration of all other occupancy and access by the City. The City will provide revised details of items (a), (b) and (c) above to Crowley as soon as the Contractor's work plans are finalized;

 5.1.4 City will cooperate with Crowley and the existing tenants to the extent feasible to minimize the adverse impacts on the existing tenants;

 5.1.5 City will agree to implement appropriate safety practices and fund/install improvements to access areas to minimize the potential for accidents arising from the interaction of the City activities with those of the existing tenants, including the addition of road and traffic signage, traffic safety personnel at all times during upland Removal Work (i.e., flaggers), lighting for any night transportation work, and traffic barriers along the length of the site access route;

 5.1.6 For areas where transportation occurs across tenant leaseholds, other than areas used for sediment loading and storage directly adjacent to the pier, the City will agree to reasonably ensure that site tenants enjoy the right-of-way at all times;

 5.1.7 City will agree to provide reasonable site security to the extent necessary to ensure that City access and occupancy, including but not limited to nighttime operations, do not increase risk of theft or vandalism to tenant goods or equipment;

 5.1.8 The City will agree to compensate existing Crowley tenants directly, for the area used by the City for the Removal Work, at a rate comparable with the rate currently required under Crowley's tenant leases. If necessary, the City will agree to compensate Crowley for the area used by the City at a similar rate but only if Crowley must compensate its tenants for giving up a portion of their leasehold property to accommodate the Removal Work or any part of the Removal Work;

 5.1.9 City will agree to clean up spills of sediment, hazardous substances, or any other materials or substances deposited on Crowley's property by the City or any agent or employee of the City as a result of the Removal Work as required by state, local or federal law or regulation and, upon completion of the Removal Work, will ensure that each leasehold and other Crowley property is returned to the condition it was in upon initiation of Removal Work activities; and

 5.1.10 City will agree to indemnify and defend Crowley and PTI for any claims, costs (including defense costs), losses and liabilities to the extent arising out of the acts or omissions of the City or its contractors in connection with the City's or its contractor's occupancy of and access through Crowley's property, including any property damage, personal injury and liability for contamination arising out of the acts or omissions of the City or its contractors, except that City shall not indemnify and defend Crowley and PTI for claims, costs, losses and liabilities to the extent arising out of the negligence of Crowley and PTI.

 In addition to the provisions above, the parties understand that, in order to reach an Access Agreement with existing tenants, the existing tenants may expect to be compensated for their reasonable, actual, and quantifiable business losses or added expenses incurred due to the loss of operational space within tenant's leasehold resulting from the Removal Work. In no event does this Agreement constitute a warranty or representation by Crowley that an Access Agreement acceptable to both existing tenants can be reached, even under the conditions approved above. If the City, Crowley and the existing tenants are not able to reach agreement on terms of the Access Agreement within sixty (60) days after mutual execution of this Agreement, either party may terminate this Agreement by written notice to the other and EPA.

 5.2 Outer and Middle Berth Access and Temporary Occupancy. The Parties acknowledge that the two Slip 4 outer berths are regularly occupied by large barges that will need to be shifted in order for the City's marine contractor to access the inner berth and head of the slip with its equipment to perform the Slip 4 Early Action Area Removal Work. The outer berth is regularly occupied by Samson Tug

 and Barge under an agreement with Alaska Logistics, one of Crowley's tenants. The middle berth is regularly occupied by a Crowley barge. Crowley acknowledges that the City will need regular access to the middle berth area for required water quality monitoring for the Removal Work, and agrees to relocate its barge for the period from September 15, 2007 to February 14, 2008. The City agrees to pay for the costs of relocating and mooring the Crowley barge in the alternate location for this period. It is impossible at this time to project usage of the berth by Samson after Closing; however, after the schedule for Removal Work is finalized and Crowley receives a copy of the schedule from the City or its contractor, Crowley agrees to include a provision in its renewal lease with Alaska Logistics a requirement that Alaska Logistics require Samson to permit the City and its marine contractor to move the Samson barge when necessary to perform the Removal Work. The City and its marine contractor shall be responsible for performing this shifting and for all costs associated with this shifting. The City shall be responsible for and shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend Crowley and PTI against any property damage, personal injury, or penalties, including reasonable attorney's fees, to the extent arising from damages caused by the acts or omissions of the City or its contractors in shifting the Samson barge; however, the City shall not be responsible for and shall not indemnify Crowley and PTI against property damage, personal injury or penalties to the extent arising from the acts or omissions of Crowley or PTI. The City will similarly agree to indemnify Samson in connection with the Access Agreement with Samson.

 Following execution of this Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement, Crowley and the City will work together in good faith with the existing tenant (Alaska Logistics) to negotiate and finalize a provision in the Access Agreement regarding access to the outer and middle berth areas similar to that described above.

 Section 6. Conditions Precedent. The City's obligations under this Agreement are contingent upon fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions, which may be waived only in writing by the City. If any of these conditions is not fully satisfied or waived in writing by the City by the date of Closing or such earlier date as is specified in this Agreement, then this Agreement shall terminate and the parties shall have no further obligations under it, except that the City shall be entitled to the return of the Deposit, with accrued interest.

 6.1 City Council approval. The City shall prepare an ordinance for the City Council to authorize this transaction and appropriate the necessary funds. The ordinance shall be presented to the City Council at the earliest possible date after preparation of this Agreement. The City's obligations under this Agreement are contingent upon approval of the transaction and appropriation of the necessary funds by the City Council and the Mayor of Seattle through an ordinance that is effective prior to Closing (the "City Ordinance and Funding Condition").

 6.2 Lot Boundary Adjustment. The Property consists of portions of two separate tax parcels; therefore, completion of a Lot Boundary Adjustment is necessary. Crowley shall apply for a Lot Boundary Adjustment that results in a property boundary consistent with the legal description in Exhibit A, at its own cost and expense, no later than thirty business days after the execution date of this Agreement. Crowley shall comply with all requirements for the Lot Boundary Adjustment and diligently pursue obtaining it. Final approval of the Lot Boundary Adjustment by the City Department of Planning and Development is a condition precedent to the City's obligation to purchase the Property (the "Lot Adjustment Condition") as well as a condition to Crowley and PTI's obligation to sell the Property. The Lot Boundary Adjustment shall be recorded with King County on closing of this transaction. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement to the contrary, if this transaction does not close because other conditions of closing were not satisfied due to the fault of the City (including, but not limited to, failure to obtain City Council approval), the City will reimburse Crowley for permitting costs paid by Crowley to the Seattle Department of Planning and Development (DPD), and surveying and other third-party costs reasonably related to the Lot Boundary Adjustment paid by Crowley in connection with the Lot Boundary Adjustment.

 6.3 Execution of Limited Release and Limited Indemnity Agreements. Agreement and execution by the City and King County of the "Limited Release Agreement" (Exhibit C) and agreement and execution by City of the "Limited Indemnity Agreement" (Exhibit D) as provided for in Section 11 of this Agreement is a condition precedent to the City's obligation to purchase the Property (the "Limited Release and Indemnity Condition") as well as a condition to Crowley's and PTI's obligation to sell the Property.

 Section 7. Title review and approval. Crowley will obtain an updated Commitment and forward it to the City within 15 days of the date of this Agreement. The City will have 30 days after receipt of the updated Commitment to notify Crowley that it has accepted or has not accepted the exceptions contained in the updated Commitment. If the City accepts the exceptions contained in the updated Commitment, any exceptions not previously listed on Exhibit B will be considered Permitted Title Exceptions.

 Section 8. Condition of the Property. The City accepts the Property "as is, where is", without any warranties whatsoever except as set forth in this Agreement including, without limitation, no warranties or representations as to environmental condition, or suitability for any given use or purpose, with full knowledge that the Property contains contamination by Hazardous Substances (defined below) above federal and state regulatory levels, including as described in the environmental reports described in Section 10 (the "Environmental Reports"). Crowley and PTI shall not release additional contamination or waste materials into or on the Property prior to or after Closing. On the date of Closing, Crowley shall ensure that all construction cranes, intermodal containers and all other equipment, machinery, and useable timbers are removed from the upland portion of the Property. In addition, Crowley shall pay the City $10,000 within thirty (30) days of Closing to offset the costs of removing other materials from the upland portion of the Property including garbage, brush, concrete, rock, debris, and other waste materials. The City shall perform this removal work and shall be responsible for the remaining costs of such removal.

 Section 9. Property Improvements. Except as required of the City under Section 5 and the Access Agreement, Crowley shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of any improvement that may be needed or required on its own property by Crowley or its tenants as a result of this Agreement or the transfer of the Property to the City, including but not limited to fencing, gates, curbing, railings, crane rails, bumpers, bollards, electrical wiring, lighting, etc. The City shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of any improvement that may be needed or required on the Property following Closing.

 Section 10. Environmental Information. Crowley has provided the City with copies of or the City had already obtained copies of, the Environmental Reports that to the knowledge of Crowley are in Crowley's possession.

 Section 11. City/County Limited Release and City Limited Indemnity. At Closing, the City and King County shall execute a Release, in the form of Exhibit C hereto, both in favor of Crowley and PTI as follows: The City and King County hereby release Crowley and PTI from any and all Environmental Liability directly or indirectly arising from Hazardous Substances that were or may have been discharged prior to Closing in or on the Property, including claims based on any type of Environmental Liability, claims based on common- law causes of action for trespass, negligence, nuisance or other common law theories, claims for business losses, and claims directly or indirectly arising from or related to Hazardous Substances that were removed from the Property prior to Closing. The term "Hazardous Substances" includes all substances that are regulated under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), The Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), and the Washington State Model Toxics Control Act (MTCA). The term "Environmental Liability" includes any claim that may be brought and any order that may be issued pursuant to one of the statutes listed above and associated regulations, and claims based upon common law causes of action for trespass, negligence, nuisance or other common law theories, claims for lost property value, claims for business losses, and claims for personal injuries arising from or related to Hazardous Substances.

 In addition, at Closing the City shall execute an Indemnity, in the form of Exhibit D, in favor of Crowley and PTI, under which the City agrees to indemnify and defend Crowley and PTI from any Environmental Liability described above, directly or indirectly arising from Hazardous Substances in or on the Property prior to Closing with the sole exception of claims for damages to natural resources brought pursuant to CERCLA; the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. section1251 et seq.; the Oil Pollution Act, 33 U.S.C. section2701 et seq.; MTCA; Chapter 90.48 RCW; or Chapter 90.56 RCW. Both the City/County Limited Release and City Limited Indemnity shall be recorded in the chain of title for the Property at Closing and shall be covenants that run with the land and are binding on the City's successors and assigns.

 Section 12. Indemnity Procedure. Crowley shall notify the City in writing within fifteen (15) business days of Crowley's or PTI's receipt of a written claim for which Crowley or PTI believes it is entitled to indemnity pursuant to the City Limited Indemnity described in Section 11 above. The City shall retain legal counsel that is acceptable to Crowley and PTI and shall defend any claim, action or proceeding against Crowley or PTI that is covered by their indemnity. Crowley and PTI shall not unreasonably withhold acceptance of legal counsel. Crowley and PTI shall reasonably cooperate with the City in the defense, including, but not limited to: securing and providing evidence; using good faith efforts to make witnesses available for interviews, hearings, depositions, and trials; providing a suitable person to be Crowley's management representative in court proceedings; participating in alternative dispute resolution processes; and complying with other reasonable requests from the City and the legal counsel hired to defend Crowley; provided that Crowley, as owner of PTI, shall not be required to maintain PTI's corporate existence beyond Closing of this sale.

 Section 13. Assignment of Claims. At Closing, Crowley and PTI assign to the City and King County, with full power of substitution, any and all causes of action, in law or in equity, defenses, counterclaims, demands, and all other rights, in the nature of contribution, indemnification or otherwise, known and unknown, suspected or unsuspected (collectively, "Claims"), they may have against any other third party for or with respect to any Environmental Liability directly or indirectly arising from Hazardous Substances in, on, or under the Property prior to Closing, except that (a) Crowley and PTI reserve any Claims they may have against their insurer(s); (b) Crowley and PTI reserve all Claims related to the balance of Parcel D and Slip 4, respectively; (c) this provision does not include assignment of Claims Crowley or PTI may retain under

 this Agreement against the City or King County; and (d) Crowley and PTI reserve all claims for damages to natural resources brought pursuant to CERCLA; the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. section1251 et seq.; the Oil Pollution Act, 33 U.S.C. section2701 et seq.; MTCA; Chapter 90.48 RCW; or Chapter 90.56 RCW.

 Section 14. Crowley's and PTI's Limited Release. At Closing, the deeds executed by Crowley and PTI shall include a Release by Crowley and PTI in favor of the City and King County, the text of which will be in the following form: "Crowley and PTI release and waive all claims Crowley or PTI have or may have against the City and/or King County, arising directly or indirectly, from Hazardous Substances that were or may have been discharged prior to Closing in or on the Property from City or King County facilities, including, but not limited to, storm drains, sanitary sewers, streets, and the flume for the Georgetown Steam Plant except that:

 (a) Crowley and PTI reserve any Claims they may have against their insurer(s);

 (b) Crowley and PTI reserve all Claims related to the balance of Parcel D and Slip 4, respectively;

 (c) Crowley and PTI may terminate the release favoring King County contained in this Section 14 where: (i) the substance and basis of such claim is first presented in a claim to the City of Seattle for indemnity under this Agreement; (ii) Crowley has a good faith basis to believe the claim is covered by the City's indemnity and defense obligation; and (iii) the City failed to, refused to, or was unable to fully indemnify and defend Crowley and/or PTI for the claim or a portion thereof. In such case, Crowley and PTI's termination of this release as to the relevant claim shall take effect upon written notice to King County that includes evidence that the written claim for indemnity required in Section 12 was provided to the City, a brief summary of the basis for Crowley's good faith belief that the claim is covered by the City's indemnity and defense obligation, and evidence of the City's failure to fully defend and/or indemnify Crowley for the claim; and

 (d) Crowley and PTI reserve all claims for damages to natural resources brought pursuant to CERCLA; the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. section1251 et seq.; the Oil Pollution Act, 33 U.S.C. section2701 et seq.; MTCA; Chapter 90.48 RCW; or Chapter 90.56 RCW.

 Subject to the foregoing exceptions, the release in this Section 14 includes claims based on any type of Environmental Liability, claims based on common-law causes of action for trespass, negligence, nuisance or other common law theories, claims for business losses, and claims directly or indirectly arising from or related to Hazardous Substances that were removed from the Property prior to Closing. Crowley and PTI shall provide written notice of this release to their insurer(s) and, on or before Closing, Crowley and PTI shall provide the City and County with a copy of the notice with evidence of receipt by their insurer(s).

 Section 15. No Admission of Liability; No Release of Non-Parties. This Agreement shall not constitute nor shall be used as evidence of any admission of law or fact, or a waiver of any right or defense by any party, except as expressly set forth in this Agreement. The parties do not admit to any fact or to any liability under, or violation of any federal, state or local law, rule or regulation, and no part of this Agreement shall constitute such an admission. This Agreement is not intended to, nor shall it, release, discharge or affect any rights or causes of action that any of the parties hereto may have against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly stated in this Agreement, and each of the parties reserves all such rights. The releases contained in this Agreement shall not impair the rights of the parties to assert or bring any proceeding to enforce the terms of this Agreement or the terms of the agreements attached as exhibits hereto.

 Section 16. Crowley's Warranties and Representations. As of the date that Crowley executes this Agreement and as of the date of Closing, Crowley represents and warrants the following:

 16.1 Authority to sell. Crowley and the person signing this Agreement on behalf of Crowley have full power and authority to execute this Agreement and perform Crowley's obligations under it. When executed and delivered by Crowley, PTI and the City, this Agreement shall constitute a legal, valid, and binding obligation by Crowley.

 16.2 Litigation and liens. To Crowley's knowledge at the time of execution of this Agreement and at the time of Closing:

 1. No litigation or proceeding which might materially impair the value or use of the Property, or which might prevent the City from acquiring the Property in accordance with this Agreement, is pending or threatened against Crowley, including, but not limited to, a bankruptcy filing;

 2. No judgments, orders, or decrees that might affect Crowley's ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement or the City's intended use of the Property are pending against Crowley;

 3. No claims or liens for labor, material, or equipment have been filed against the Property and all contracts with Crowley that could result in such claims or liens have been paid;

 4. No consent or approval by any federal, state, or local court or agency is required in order for Crowley to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement, subject to approval of the Boundary Line Adjustment;

 5. The Property is not subject to any leases, tenancies, or rights of persons in possession, except for a lease to Alaska Logistics;

 6. Crowley has not released any person or entity, other than Evergreen Marine Leasing as part of Crowley's purchase agreement, who may have legal responsibility for any Hazardous Substance on, in, or under the Property, or for any Environmental Liability arising directly or indirectly from Hazardous Substances on, in, or under the Property. Regardless of the foregoing, Crowley does not make any representations or warranties as to the validity of its claims or of any defenses against those claims.

 7. Crowley has not assigned, conveyed or otherwise transferred to any other person or entity any claims, demands, causes of action, rights or obligations related in any way to the Environmental Liability claims assigned or released in this Agreement.

 Section 17. PTI's Warranties and Representations. As of the date that PTI executes this Agreement and as of the date of Closing, PTI represents and warrants the following:

 17.1 Authority to sell. PTI, and the person signing this Agreement on behalf of PTI, have full power and authority to execute this Agreement and perform PTI's obligations under it. When executed and delivered by PTI, Crowley, and the City, this Agreement shall constitute a legal, valid, and binding obligation by PTI.

 17.2 Litigation and liens. To the best of PTI's knowledge at the time of execution of this Agreement and at the time of Closing:

 1. No litigation or proceeding which might materially impair the value or use of the Property, or which might prevent the City from acquiring the Property in accordance with this Agreement, is pending or threatened against PTI, including, but not limited to, a bankruptcy filing;

 2. No judgments, orders, or decrees that might affect PTI's ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement or the City's intended use of the Property are pending against PTI;

 3. No claims or liens for labor, material, or equipment have been filed against the Property and all contracts with PTI that could result in such claims or liens have been paid;

 4. No consent or approval by any federal, state, or local court or agency is required in order for PTI to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement, subject to approval of the Boundary Line Adjustment;

 5. The Property is not subject to any leases, tenancies, or rights of persons in possession, except for a lease to Alaska Logistics;

 6. PTI has not released any person or entity, other than Evergreen Marine Leasing as part of Crowley's purchase agreement who may have legal responsibility for any Hazardous Substance on, in, or under the Property, or for any Environmental Liability arising directly or indirectly from Hazardous Substances on, in, or under the Property. Regardless of the foregoing, PTI does not make any representations or warranties as to the validity of its claims or of any defenses against those claims.

 7. PTI has not assigned, conveyed or otherwise transferred to any other person or entity any claims, demands, causes of action, rights or obligations related in any way to the Environmental Liability claims assigned or released in this Agreement.

 Section 18. New instruments. From and after the date that Crowley and PTI execute this Agreement and continuing until Closing or termination of this Agreement, neither Crowley nor PTI shall enter into or record any leases, trust deeds, mortgages, restrictions, encumbrances, liens, licenses, releases, purchase and sale agreements, options to sell, or other instruments or agreements affecting the Property without the prior written consent of the City.

 Section 19. Closing.

 19.1 Closing Date. Following satisfaction or waiver of all conditions precedent set forth in Section 6 and execution of the Access Agreement described in Section 5, Closing shall occur in the office of Escrow Agent on a date mutually agreeable to Crowley, PTI and City. To attempt to minimize interference with Crowley tenant operations and avoid leaseback to Crowley or its tenants, the parties agree to set the Closing on a date as close as is practicable to the start of Removal Work and shall set such date so as to be able to provide Crowley tenants with ninety (90) days notice of Closing. Closing shall be on June 20, 2007, unless such date is extended by the Parties in writing.

 19.2 Deposit. The Deposit and accrued interest, if any, shall be credited against the Purchase Price.

 19.3 Prorations and closing costs. Crowley and PTI shall pay real estate excise taxes at Closing and their prorated share of surface water management fees, other fees (if any) owed to governmental entities, and real property taxes. If Crowley or PTI is entitled to a reimbursement for overpayment of real property taxes, it shall be their responsibility to seek such reimbursement from the appropriate taxing authority outside of Closing. Crowley's and PTI's monetary liens on the Property, if any, shall be discharged in full out of the Purchase Price at Closing. City will pay the premium for its owners title insurance policy, the Escrow Agent's fees, and the cost of recording the Boundary Line Adjustment and the special warranty deeds from Crowley and PTI.

 19.4 Documents. Crowley, PTI and City shall deposit in escrow with Escrow Agent all instruments, documents, and money necessary to complete the sale in accordance with this Agreement. At Closing, Crowley and PTI shall execute and deliver to City in escrow the following documents, special warranty deeds containing the text set forth in Section 14, and each of the following which shall be in a form and substance satisfactory to City and Crowley and PTI: real estate excise tax affidavits; affidavits evidencing that Crowley and PTI are exempt from the withholding requirements of Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code, evidence that Crowley is a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Washington, that PTI is a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of California and that the persons signing on their behalf are authorized to carry out the obligations under this Agreement; and a copy of the approved Boundary Line Adjustment and accompanying survey.

 19.5 Possession. The City shall be entitled to possession of the Property from Crowley and PTI upon Closing.

 19.6 Leaseback. The City acknowledges that Crowley's current tenant on a portion of the upland part of the Property adjacent to the Pier (Alaska Logistics) may desire to continue to lease said portion of the Property for up to sixty (60) days following Closing. The City agrees in principle to allow Alaska Logistics to lease said portion of the Property on a month-to-month basis for a maximum of sixty (60) days following Closing; however in no event shall the lease period extend beyond September 1, 2007.

 Section 20. Remedies on default. If one party has performed its obligations under this Agreement and another party defaults under the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the performing party shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement without further obligation to the other party or parties; provided that if the City is the non- defaulting party, it shall receive the Deposit from the Escrow Agent, plus interest, if any. If the defaulting party is the City, then the Deposit shall be paid to Crowley and PTI and their receipt of the Deposit shall constitute liquidated damages and shall be their sole and exclusive remedy.

 Section 21. Broker representation. Each party represents and warrants to the other that it has not incurred, and is not obliged to pay, finder's or broker's fees, or other commissions or fees in connection with the sale of the Property. If any party incurs or is obliged to pay such fees or commissions in violation of this provision, it shall indemnify and hold the other parties harmless for the fees or commissions.

 Section 22. General provisions.

 22.1 Notices. Any demand, request or notice which any party hereto desires or may be required to make or deliver to the other shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when personally delivered, or when delivered by confirmed facsimile or by private courier service (such as Federal Express), or three days (3) after being deposited in the United States Mail, in registered or certified form, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:

 To Crowley or PTI: c/o Crowley Marine Services, Inc.

 Attn: Stephen Wilson

 P.O. Box 2287

 1102 S.W. Massachusetts St.

 Seattle, WA 98134-1030

 Facsimile: (206) 332-8333

 with a copy to: Cascadia Law Group

 Attn: Rodney Brown

 1201 Third Avenue, Suite 320

 Seattle, WA 98101

 Facsimile: (206) 292-6301

 To the City: c/o Martin Baker

 Seattle Public Utilities

 Seattle Municipal Tower, Suite 4900

 P.O. Box 34027

 Seattle, WA 98104-4127

 Facsimile: (206) 684-4631

 with a copy to: Seattle City Attorney's Office

 Attn: Stephen Karbowski

 600 Fourth Avenue, 4th Floor

 P.O. Box 94769

 Seattle, WA 98101

 Facsimile: (206) 684-8284

 or to such other address which is not a post office box and person as either party may communicate to the other by like written notice.

 22.2 Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the entire understanding between the parties and supersedes any prior understandings and agreements between them respecting the subject matter hereof. There are no other representations, agreements, arrangements or understandings, oral or written, between and among the parties hereto or any of them, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement. No amendment of or supplement to this Agreement shall be valid or effective unless made in writing and executed by the parties hereto.

 22.3 Construction. The headings and subheadings throughout this Agreement are for convenience and reference only and the words contained in them shall not be held to expand, modify, amplify or aid in the interpretation, construction or meaning of this Agreement. All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, neuter, singular or plural as the identification of the person or persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations may require. "Person" shall mean an individual, firm, association, corporation, trust or any other form of business or legal entity. The locative adverbs "herein", "hereunder", "hereto", "hereby", "hereinafter", etc., whenever the same appear herein, mean and refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any specific section or subsection hereof. Any reference in this Agreement to "days" means consecutive calendar days. Any reference in this Agreement to "business days" means days in which the recording office of the county in which the Land is located and national banks are open in the State of Washington. All parties hereto have been represented by legal counsel in this transaction and accordingly hereby waive the general rule of construction that an agreement shall be construed against its drafter.

 22.4 Attorneys' Fees. In the event of litigation between the parties hereto, declaratory or otherwise, in connection with or arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall recover from the non-prevailing party all actual costs, actual damages and actual expenses, including attorneys' fees and charges, paralegal and clerical fees and charges and other professional or consultants' fees and charges expended or incurred in connection therewith, as set by the court, including for appeals, which shall be determined and fixed by the court as part of the judgment.

 22.5 Assignment. The City may not assign all or any of its interest in this Agreement without Crowley's and PTI's prior written consent.

 22.6 Knowledge. References herein to the "knowledge of Crowley" or "Crowley's knowledge" or "the knowledge of PTI" or "PTI's knowledge" shall mean the knowledge of R. Stephen Wilson on the date Crowley executes this Agreement.

 22.7 Binding. Subject to any limiting provisions otherwise set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of the parties hereto.

 22.8 Time of the Essence. Time is of the essence in each and every term, covenant and condition of this Agreement.

 22.9 Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted under the laws of the state where the Property is located.

 22.10 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and all counterparts shall be deemed to constitute a single agreement. The execution of one counterpart by any party shall have the same force and effect as if that party had signed all other counterparts.

 22.11 Survival. All warranties, representations, covenants, obligations and agreements contained in or arising out of this Agreement shall survive the Closing and the transfer and conveyance of the Property hereunder and any and all performance hereunder.

 22.12 Tax-Deferred Exchange. Crowley may elect to sell the Property as part of a tax deferred exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code and if so will assign this Agreement for the purpose of effecting the exchange to an exchange facilitator. The City agrees to cooperate with Crowley in effecting such exchange provided that the City shall not be required to incur any cost or liability as a result of such cooperation.

 22.13 Exhibits. The Exhibits listed below, attached hereto, are a part of this Agreement as if incorporated herein.

 Exhibit A - Property Description

 Exhibit B - Permitted Title Exceptions

 Exhibit C - Limited Release Agreement

 Exhibit D - Limited Indemnity Agreement

 Exhibit E - Construction Access Options

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, EIGHTH AVENUE TERMINALS, INC.,

 a Washington municipal corporation a California corporation

 By: _____________________________ By:____________________________

 Its: _____________________________ Its: ____________________________

 By: _____________________________

 Its: _____________________________

 CROWLEY MARINE SERVICES, INC.,

 Approved as to Form: a Delaware corporation

 Office of the City Attorney

 By:____________________________

 By: ____________________________ Its: ____________________________

[EXHIBIT A - PROPERTY DESCRIPTION](/~ordpics/115834_exa1.pdf) (Requires Adobe Acrobat Reader)

[MAP](/~ordpics/115834_exa2.pdf) (Requires Adobe Acrobat Reader)

[EXHIBIT B - PERMITTED TITLE EXCEPTIONS](/~ordpics/115834_exb.pdf) (Requires Adobe Acrobat Reader)

 EXHIBIT C

 Limited Release Agreement

 Recorded at the Request of

 And After Recording Return to:

 Rodney L. Brown Jr.

 Cascadia Law Group PLLC

 1201 Third Avenue, Suite 320

 Seattle, WA 98101

 Legal Description (abbreviated): Portion of Southeast quarter of Section 29-24-4. Complete legal description(s) are in Exhibit A to this document, attached hereto.

 Assessor's Tax Parcel ID: 213620-0641-04, 292404-9110-03.

 LIMITED RELEASE AGREEMENT

 THIS LIMITED RELEASE AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made as of the ___ day of ____________, 2007, by THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), a Washington municipal corporation, KING COUNTY ("County"), a Washington municipal corporation, EIGHTH AVENUE TERMINALS, INC., a California corporation, formerly known as Pacific Terminals, Inc. ("PTI"), and CROWLEY MARINE SERVICES, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Crowley").

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS, the real property that is the subject of this Agreement is located in King County, Washington and is legally described in the attached Exhibit A to this Limited Release Agreement (hereafter the "Property"). The "Property" is a portion of the parcel known as Revised Slip #4 and a portion of the parcel known as Parcel D, which parcels were created by Lot Line Adjustment recorded under Recording No. 9212019002, records of King County, Washington.

 WHEREAS, Crowley owns Parcel D and PTI owns Revised Slip #4 and these Parties intend to sell the Property to the City of Seattle to facilitate environmental remediation of a portion of the slip and related bank areas within the Property pursuant to that certain Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City, Crowley and PTI (the "Purchase Agreement");

 WHEREAS, the Parties intend that upon closing of the aforementioned transaction ("Closing") certain limited release obligations shall be exchanged among the Parties to this Agreement as described in Sections 11 and 14 of the Purchase Agreement.

 NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants contained herein, the sufficiency of which are acknowledged, the Parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:

 Section 1. Definitions.

 1.1. For purposes of this agreement, "Property" is as defined in the first recital.

 1.2. The term "Hazardous Substances" includes all substances that are regulated under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), and the Washington State Model Toxics Control Act (MTCA).

 1.3. The term "Environmental Liability" includes any Claim that may be brought and any order that may be issued pursuant to one of the statutes listed in Section 1.2 above and associated regulations, and Claims based upon common law causes of action for trespass, negligence, nuisance or other common law theories, claims for lost property value, claims for business losses, and claims for personal injuries arising from or related to Hazardous Substances.

 1.4. "Claim" is defined as any cause of action, in law or in equity, defense, counterclaim, demand, and all other rights, in the nature of contribution, indemnification or otherwise, known and unknown, suspected or unsuspected.

 Section 2. City/County Limited Release. The City and King County hereby release Crowley and PTI from any and all Environmental Liability directly or indirectly arising from Hazardous Substances that were or may have been discharged prior to Closing in or on the Property, including Claims directly or indirectly arising from or related to Hazardous Substances that were removed from the Property prior to Closing.

 Section 3. Assignment of Claims. Crowley and PTI assign to the City and King County, with full power of substitution, any and all Claims either may have against any other third party for or with respect to any Environmental Liability directly or indirectly arising from Hazardous Substances in, on, or under the Property prior to Closing; except that (a) Crowley and PTI reserve any Claims they may have against their insurer(s); (b) Crowley and PTI reserve all Claims related to the balance of Parcel D and Slip 4, respectively; (c) this provision does not include assignment of Claims Crowley or PTI may retain under the Purchase Agreement against the City or King County; and (d) Crowley and PTI reserve all Claims for damages to natural resources brought pursuant to CERCLA; the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. section1251 et seq.; the Oil Pollution Act, 33 U.S.C. section2701 et seq., MTCA; Chapter 90.48 RCW; or Chapter 90.56 RCW.

 Section 4. No Admission of Liability; No Release of Non-Parties. This Agreement shall not constitute nor shall be used as evidence of any admission of law or fact, or a waiver of any right or defense by any Party, except as expressly set forth in this Agreement. The Parties do not admit to any fact or to any liability under, or violation of any federal, state or local law, rule or regulation, and no part of this Agreement shall constitute such an admission. This Agreement is not intended to, nor shall it, release, discharge or affect any rights or causes of action that any of the Parties hereto may have against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly stated in this Agreement, and each of the Parties reserves all such rights. The releases contained in this Agreement shall not impair the rights of the Parties to assert or bring any proceeding to enforce the terms of this Agreement or the Purchase Agreement.

 Section 5. Runs with the Land. Upon Closing, this Agreement shall be recorded in the chain of title for the Property and shall be a covenant that runs with the land and is binding on the Parties' successors and assigns.

 Section 6. General provisions.

 6.1. Notices. Any demand, request or notice which either Party hereto desires or may be required to make or deliver to the other shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when personally delivered, or when delivered by confirmed facsimile or by private courier service (such as Federal Express), or three (3) days after being deposited in the United States Mail, in registered or certified form, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:

 To Crowley or PTI: c/o Crowley Marine Services, Inc.

 Attn: R. Stephen Wilson

 P.O. Box 2287

 1102 S.W. Massachusetts St.

 Seattle, WA 98134-1030

 Facsimile: (206) 332-8333

 with a copy to: Cascadia Law Group

 Attn: Rodney L. Brown, Jr.

 1201 Third Avenue, Suite 320

 Seattle, WA 98101

 Facsimile: (206) 292-6301

 To the City: c/o Martin Baker

 Seattle Public Utilities

 Seattle Municipal Tower, Suite 4900

 P.O. Box 34027

 Seattle, WA 98104-4127

 Facsimile: (206) 684-4631

 with a copy to: Seattle City Attorney's Office

 Attn: Stephen Karbowski

 600 Fourth Avenue, 4th Floor

 P.O. Box 94769

 Seattle, WA 98101

 Facsimile: (206) 684-8284

 To King County: c/o _______________________

 ___________________________

 _____________________________

 with a copy to: King County Prosecuting Attorney's Office

 ________________________________

 ________________________________

 or to such other address which is not a post office box and person as either Party may communicate to the other by like written notice.

 6.2. Construction. The headings and subheadings throughout this Agreement are for convenience and reference only and the words contained in them shall not be held to expand, modify, amplify or aid in the interpretation, construction or meaning of this Agreement. All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, neuter, singular or plural as the identification of the person or persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations may require. "Person" shall mean an individual, firm, association, corporation, trust or any other form of business or legal entity. The locative adverbs "herein", "hereunder", "hereto", "hereby", "hereinafter", etc., whenever the same appear herein, mean and refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any specific section or subsection hereof. Any reference in this Agreement to "days" means consecutive calendar days. Any reference in this Agreement to "business days" means days in which the recording office of the county in which the Property is located and national banks are open in the State of Washington. All Parties hereto have been represented by legal counsel in this transaction and accordingly hereby waive the general rule of construction that an agreement shall be construed against its drafter.

 6.3. Attorneys' Fees. In the event of litigation between the Parties hereto, declaratory or otherwise, in connection with or arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing Party shall recover from the non-prevailing Party all actual costs, actual damages and actual expenses, including attorneys' fees and charges, paralegal and clerical fees and charges and other professional or consultants' fees and charges expended or incurred in connection therewith, as set by the court, including for appeals, which shall be determined and fixed by the court as part of the judgment.

 6.4. Assignment. The City or County may not assign all or any of its interest in this Agreement without Crowley's prior written consent.

 Section 7. Binding. Subject to any limiting provisions otherwise set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of the Parties hereto.

 Section 8. Time of the Essence. Time is of the essence in each and every term, covenant and condition of this Agreement.

 Section 9. Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted under the laws of the state where the Property is located.

 Section 10. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and all counterparts shall be deemed to constitute a single agreement. The execution of one counterpart by any Party shall have the same force and effect as if that Party had signed all other counterparts.

 Section 11. No Admission of Liability. This Agreement is entered into without any admission of liability, and nothing in this Agreement shall constitute or be interpreted, construed, or used as evidence of any admission of liability.

 Section 12. Informed Negotiation. This Agreement is the product of informed negotiation between the Parties hereto. Each of the Parties has participated in drafting this Agreement, or has agreed to the terms of this Agreement, after consulting with counsel.

 Section 13. Authority to Enter Agreement. The Parties represent that the person signing this Agreement is duly authorized to do so, and that this Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation.

 Section 14. Exhibits. The Exhibits attached hereto are a part of this Agreement as if incorporated herein.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed on the date set forth below.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE,

 a Washington municipal corporation

 By: _____________________________

 Its: _____________________________

 By: _____________________________

 Its: _____________________________

 Approved as to Form:

 Office of the City Attorney

 By: ____________________________

 KING COUNTY,

 a Washington municipal corporation

 By: _____________________________

 Its: _____________________________

 EIGHTH AVENUE TERMINALS, INC.,

 a California corporation

 By:____________________________

 Its: ____________________________

 CROWLEY MARINE SERVICES, INC.,

 a Delaware corporation

 By:____________________________

 Its: ____________________________

 {Notary blocks to be added to correspond to the above signatures.}

 Exhibit C - LIMITED RELEASE AGREEMENT

 Exhibit C to Attachment 1 SPU Slip4 Ord

 Page 1 of 6

 EXHIBIT D - Limited Indemnity Agreement

 Recorded at the Request of

 And After Recording Return to:

 Rodney L. Brown, Jr.

 Cascadia Law Group PLLC

 1201 Third Avenue, Suite 320

 Seattle, WA 98101

 Legal Description (abbreviated): Portion of Southeast quarter of Section 29-24-4. Complete legal description(s) are in Exhibit A to this document, attached hereto.

 Assessor's Tax Parcel ID: 213620-0641-04, 292404-9110-03.

 LIMITED INDEMNITY AGREEMENT

 THIS LIMITED INDEMNITY AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made as of the ___ day of ____________, 2007, by THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), a Washington municipal corporation, in favor of EIGHTH AVENUE TERMINALS, INC., a California corporation, formerly known as Pacific Terminals, Inc. ("PTI"), and CROWLEY MARINE SERVICES, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Crowley").

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS, the real property that is the subject of this Agreement is located in King County, Washington and is legally described in the attached Exhibit A to this Limited Indemnity Agreement (hereafter the "Property"). The "Property" is a portion of the parcel known as Revised Slip #4 and a portion of the parcel known as Parcel D, which parcels were created by Lot Line Adjustment recorded under Recording No. 9212019002, records of King County, Washington.

 WHEREAS, Crowley owns Parcel D and PTI owns Revised Slip #4 and these Parties intend to sell the Property to the City of Seattle to facilitate environmental remediation of a portion of the slip and related bank areas within the Property pursuant to that certain Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement between the City, Crowley and PTI (the "Purchase Agreement");

 WHEREAS, the Parties intend that upon closing of the aforementioned transaction ("Closing") certain limited release and indemnity obligations shall be exchanged among the Parties to this Agreement as described in Sections 11, 12, 13 & 14 of the Purchase Agreement.

 NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants contained herein, the sufficiency of which are acknowledged, the Parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:

 Section 1. Definitions.

 1.1. For purposes of this agreement, "Property" is as defined in the first recital.

 1.2. The term "Hazardous Substances" includes all substances that are regulated under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), and the Washington State Model Toxics Control Act (MTCA).

 1.3. The term "Environmental Liability" includes any Claim that may be brought and any order that may be issued pursuant to one of the statutes listed in Section 1.2 above and associated regulations, and Claims based upon common law causes of action for trespass, negligence, nuisance or other common law theories, claims for lost property value, claims for business losses, and claims for personal injuries arising from or related to Hazardous Substances.

 1.4. "Claim" is defined as any cause of action, in law or in equity, defense, counterclaim, demand, and all other rights, in the nature of contribution, indemnification or otherwise, known and unknown, suspected or unsuspected.

 Section 2. City Indemnity and Duty to Defend. The City shall indemnify and defend Crowley and PTI from any and all Environmental Liability directly or indirectly arising from Hazardous Substances in or on the Property prior to Closing, with the sole exception of Claims for damages to natural resources brought pursuant to CERCLA; the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. section1251 et seq.; the Oil Pollution Act, 33 U.S.C. section2701 et seq., MTCA; Chapter 90.48 RCW, or Chapter 90.56 RCW.

 Section 3. Indemnity and Defense Procedure.

 3.1. Crowley shall notify the City in writing within fifteen (15) business days of Crowley's or PTI's receipt of written Claim for which Crowley or PTI believes it is entitled to indemnity and defense by the City pursuant to Section 2 above. The failure of Crowley or PTI to give 15-day notice of a Claim shall not affect Crowley's or PTI's right to be indemnified or defended under this Agreement, provided that the indemnification obligations of City shall be reduced by the extent to which the failure to provide the 15-day notice prejudices or damages the City.

 3.2. The City shall have 45 days from the Claim notice (the "Notice Period") to notify Crowley whether or not it disputes its liability to Crowley or PTI with respect to such Claim and/or, if defense is at issue, whether or not it disputes its obligation to defend the Claim at its own cost and expense; provided, however, that Crowley, in its discretion, may prior to and during the Notice Period file any motion, answer or other pleading that it may deem necessary or appropriate to protect its interest in the event the City ultimately refuse to defend the Claim; however, the failure to do so shall in no way affect Crowley or PTI's right to indemnity and defense under this Agreement. If the City fails to give notice to Crowley within the Notice Period, the City shall be deemed to have accepted the Claim. If the City fails to accept its defense obligation (either by failing to give notice to assume the defense within the Notice Period or by disputing its defense obligation within the Notice Period) and it is ultimately determined that the Claim falls within the City's Section 2 indemnity and defense obligation, the City shall: (a) be bound by any determination made in such action or any compromise or settlement thereof effected by Crowley or PTI and (b) shall be required to pay Crowley and PTI's costs of defense including all attorneys' fees and charges, paralegal and clerical fees and charges and other professional or consultants' fees and charges expended or incurred in connection with defense of the Claim.

 3.3. If the City notifies Crowley within the Notice Period that it desires to defend Crowley or PTI against a Claim, the City shall have the right to control the defense against the Claim by all appropriate proceedings and any settlement negotiations; provided however, that (a) the City shall retain legal counsel that is reasonably acceptable to Crowley and shall defend any Claim, action or proceeding against Crowley or PTI that is covered by their indemnity and Crowley shall not unreasonably withhold acceptance of legal counsel, and (b) if Crowley desires to participate in, but not control, any such defense or settlement it may do so at its own cost and expense.

 3.4. If the Claim is accepted, Crowley and PTI shall reasonably cooperate with the City and in the defense, including, but not limited to: securing and providing evidence; using good faith efforts to make witnesses available for interviews, hearings, depositions, and trials; providing a suitable person to be Crowley's management representative in court proceedings; participating in alternative dispute resolution processes; and complying with other reasonable requests from the City and the legal counsel hired to defend Crowley; provided that Crowley, as owner of PTI, shall not be required to maintain PTI's corporate existence beyond Closing.

 Section 4. No Admission of Liability; No Release of Non-Parties. This Agreement shall not constitute nor shall be used as evidence of any admission of law or fact, or a waiver of any right or defense by any Party, except as expressly set forth in this Agreement. The Parties do not admit to any fact or to any liability under, or violation of any federal, state or local law, rule or regulation, and no part of this Agreement shall constitute such an admission. This Agreement is not intended to, nor shall it, release, discharge or affect any rights or causes of action that any of the Parties hereto may have against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly stated in this Agreement, and each of the Parties reserves all such rights.

 Section 5. Runs with the Land. Upon Closing, this Agreement shall be recorded in the chain of title for the Property and shall be a covenant that runs with the land and is binding on the Parties' successors and assigns.

 Section 6. General provisions.

 6.1. Notices. Any demand, request or notice which any Party hereto desires or may be required to make or deliver to the other shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when personally delivered, or when delivered by confirmed facsimile or by private courier service (such as Federal Express), or three days (3) after being deposited in the United States Mail, in registered or certified form, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:

 To Crowley or PTI: c/o Crowley Marine Services, Inc.

 Attn: R. Stephen Wilson

 P.O. Box 2287

 1102 S.W. Massachusetts St.

 Seattle, WA 98134-1030

 Facsimile: (206) 332-8333

 with a copy to: Cascadia Law Group

 Attn: Rodney L. Brown, Jr.

 1201 Third Avenue, Suite 320

 Seattle, WA 98101

 Facsimile: (206) 292-6301

 To the City: c/o Martin Baker

 Seattle Public Utilities

 Seattle Municipal Tower, Suite 4900

 P.O. Box 34027

 Seattle, WA 98104-4127

 Facsimile: (206) 684-4631

 with a copy to: Seattle City Attorney's Office

 Attn: Stephen Karbowski

 600 Fourth Avenue, 4th Floor

 P.O. Box 94769

 Seattle, WA 98101

 Facsimile: (206) 684-8284

 or to such other address which is not a post office box and person as either Party may communicate to the other by like written notice.

 6.2. Construction. The headings and subheadings throughout this Agreement are for convenience and reference only and the words contained in them shall not be held to expand, modify, amplify or aid in the interpretation, construction or meaning of this Agreement. All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, neuter, singular or plural as the identification of the person or persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations may require. "Person" shall mean an individual, firm, association, corporation, trust or any other form of business or legal entity. The locative adverbs "herein", "hereunder", "hereto", "hereby", "hereinafter", etc., whenever the same appear herein, mean and refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any specific section or subsection hereof. Any reference in this Agreement to "days" means consecutive calendar days. Any reference in this Agreement to "business days" means days in which the recording office of the county in which the Property is located and national banks are open in the State of Washington. All Parties hereto have been represented by legal counsel in this transaction and accordingly hereby waive the general rule of construction that an agreement shall be construed against its drafter.

 6.3. Attorneys' Fees. In the event of litigation between the Parties hereto, declaratory or otherwise, in connection with or arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing Party shall recover from the non-prevailing Party all actual costs, actual damages and actual expenses, including attorneys' fees and charges, paralegal and clerical fees and charges and other professional or consultants' fees and charges expended or incurred in connection therewith, as set by the court, including for appeals, which shall be determined and fixed by the court as part of the judgment.

 6.4. Assignment. The City may not assign all or any of its interest in this Agreement without Crowley's prior written consent.

 Section 7. Binding. Subject to any limiting provisions otherwise set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of the Parties hereto.

 Section 8. Time of the Essence. Time is of the essence in each and every term, covenant and condition of this Agreement.

 Section 9. Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted under the laws of the state where the Property is located.

 Section 10. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and all counterparts shall be deemed to constitute a single agreement. The execution of one counterpart by any Party shall have the same force and effect as if that Party had signed all other counterparts.

 Section 11. No Admission of Liability. This Agreement is entered into without any admission of liability, and nothing in this Agreement shall constitute or be interpreted, construed, or used as evidence of any admission of liability.

 Section 12. Informed Negotiation. This Agreement is the product of informed negotiation between the Parties hereto. Each of the Parties has participated in drafting this Agreement, or has agreed to the terms of this Agreement, after consulting with counsel.

 Section 13. Authority to Enter Agreement. The Parties represent that the person signing this Agreement is duly authorized to do so, and that this Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation.

 Section 14. Exhibits. The Exhibits attached hereto are a part of this Agreement as if incorporated herein.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed on the date set forth below.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE,

 a Washington municipal corporation

 By: _____________________________

 Its: _____________________________

 By: _____________________________

 Its: _____________________________

 Approved as to Form:

 Office of the City Attorney

 By: ____________________________

 EIGHTH AVENUE TERMINALS, INC.,

 a California corporation

 By:____________________________

 Its: ____________________________

 CROWLEY MARINE SERVICES, INC.,

 a Delaware corporation

 By:____________________________

 Its: ____________________________

 {Notary blocks to be added}

 Exhibit D

 LIMITED INDEMNITY AGREEMENT

 Exhibit D to Attachment 1 SPU SLIP 4 Ord

 Page 1 of 7

 EXHIBIT E

 Construction Access Options

[EXHIBIT E - CONSTRUCTION ACCESS OPTIONS, OPTION 1](/~ordpics/115834_exe1.pdf) (Requires Adobe Acrobat Reader)

[EXHIBIT E - CONSTRUCTION ACCESS OPTIONS, OPTION 2](/~ordpics/115834_exe2.pdf) (Requires Adobe Acrobat Reader)

 EXHIBIT F - ACCESS AGREEMENTS WITH CROWLEY AND EXISTING CROWLEY TENANTS

 (To be negotiated after mutual execution of this Agreement in accordance with Section 5 of this Agreement)

```
