

********

**Council Bill Number: 115852**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122374**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the King County Local Care Management program (KCLCM); authorizing a grant agreement with the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services (DSHS) for funding to operate the program; authorizing the execution of contracts in connection with this grant funding; increasing an appropriation in the 2007 budget of the Human Services Department (HSD) contingent upon the receipt of this grant funding; creating two new positions in HSD contingent upon receipt of this grant funding; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 9, 2007
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 13, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 13, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 26, 2007
   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services and Health
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** GRANTS, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, KING-COUNTY, HEALTH, HEALTH-CARE, LOW-INCOME, HEALTH-CARE-DELIVERY, PUBLIC-HEALTH, MEDICAL-ASSISTANCE

**Fiscal Note:**115852

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122374](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122374.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the King County Local Care Management program (KCLCM); authorizing a grant agreement with the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services (DSHS) for funding to operate the program; authorizing the execution of contracts in connection with this grant funding; increasing an appropriation in the 2007 budget of the Human Services Department (HSD) contingent upon the receipt of this grant funding; creating two new positions in HSD contingent upon receipt of this grant funding; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 WHEREAS, approximately 20,000 Medicaid patients in King County have chronic conditions, many of who experience severe illness and would benefit from coordinated, evidence-based care with assistance from a Registered Nurse (RN) care manager to improve their health outcomes and reduce unnecessary utilization of health care services; and

 WHEREAS, a locally based model of care management through community- based agencies with a medical provider network provides an efficient and effective way to serve Medicaid enrollees; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle Human Services Department (HSD) has extensive experience in providing case management services to clients experiencing chronic illness and disabilities through RNs and staff with Master of Social Work (MSW) degrees, and is also experienced in contracting for services and linking patients to community-based resources; and

 WHEREAS, community health centers (Sea Mar Community Health Centers, Community Health Centers of King County, Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers, and Country Doctor Community Health Centers) and Harborview Medical Center have participated in statewide partnerships to develop the Chronic Care Model and are recognized both locally and nationally for the extent to which they have been able to build systems of care based on the key elements of the Chronic Care Model; and

 WHEREAS, these community organizations share the mission to serve low- income patients and are experienced at caring for vulnerable and underserved populations; and

 WHEREAS, HSD has an existing infrastructure that includes RNs, MSWs, and a contracted telephonic system capable of communicating in multiple languages for accepting and triaging referrals from community-based organizations, families and individuals; and

 WHEREAS, HSD, in partnership with community health centers, will administer the KCLCM program to provide innovative, client-focused care management that addresses the barriers to appropriate care for serious and chronic illnesses from both the provider and client perspective, and provide cost-effective services at the local level; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Mayor or his designee is authorized to accept, execute, deliver and perform, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, a grant agreement in substantially the form attached to this Ordinance as Attachment 1, for grant funding of One Million Six Hundred Seventy-five Thousand Dollars ($1,675,000) to be used to operate the King County Local Care Management (KCLCM) Program. The Mayor or his designee is further authorized to contract with such entities as may be necessary to operate the KCLCM program in a manner consistent with the grant agreement. Grant funds received shall be deposited in the Human Services Department Operating Fund as set forth in Section 2 of this Ordinance.

 Section 2. Contingent upon the receipt of grant funds pursuant to the agreement authorized in Section 1 of this ordinance, the appropriation for the following in the 2007 budget is hereby increased as follows:

 Fund Department Budget Control Level Amount of increase

 16200 HSD Operating Human H60 AD $1,675,000 Fund Services ADS Area Agency on Aging Department

 Total $1,675,000

 Unspent funds so appropriated shall carry forward to subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 3. Contingent upon the receipt of grant funding as authorized in Section 1 of this Ordinance, and to carry out the purposes of the grant agreement authorized in that section, the following positions are hereby created in the Human Services Department, such positions to continue only so long as funding therefore is available from that grant agreement or from successor agreements:

 Position Title Position Status Number of Positions

 Sr. Grants and Contracts Full time 1 Specialist

 Sr. Finance Analyst Full time 1

 The Human Services Department Director is authorized to fill these positions subject to civil service and personnel rules and laws.

 Section 4. Execution of the agreement and contracts authorized in Section 1 hereof and any other acts consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Interlocal Grant Agreement between DSHS and the City of Seattle

 ??

 ??

 ??

 ??

 Sara Levin/SEL

 HSD KCLCM Grant ORD

 February 22, 2007

 Version #4a

 Form Last Revised on December 16, 2006 3

 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT DSHS Agreement Number: 0764-07494

 This Agreement is by and between the State of Washington Program Contract Number: Department of Social and Health Services (DSHS) and the Contractor identified below, and is issued pursuant to the Contractor Contract Number: Interlocal Cooperation Act, chapter 39.34 RCW.

 CONTRACTOR NAME CONTRACTOR doing business as (DBA)

 Seattle, City of Aging and Disability Services

 CONTRACTOR ADDRESS WASHINGTON UNIFORM DSHS INDEX NUMBER BUSINESS IDENTIFIER 700 5th Ave Ste 5800 (UBI) PO Box 34215 1066 Seattle, WA 98124-4215

 CONTRACTOR CONTACT CONTRACTOR TELEPHONE CONTRACTOR FAX CONTRACTOR E-MAIL ADDRESS Pamela Piering (206) 684-0104 Ext: (206) 233-5142 Pamela.Piering@Seattle. Gov

 DSHS ADMINISTRATION DSHS DIVISION DSHS CONTRACT CODE

 ALL All Divisions 4000LC-64

 DSHS CONTACT NAME AND TITLE DSHS CONTACT ADDRESS

 Alison Robbins P O Box 45530 Contract Manager 626 8th Avene Olympia, WA 98504

 DSHS CONTACT TELEPHONE DSHS CONTACT FAX DSHS CONTACT E-MAIL ADDRESS

 (360) 725-1634 Ext: (360) 753-7315 robbiaa@dshs.wa.gov

 IS THE CONTRACTOR A SUBRECIPIENT FOR PURPOSES OF CFDA NUMBER(S) THIS CONTRACT?

 No

 AGREEMENT START DATE AGREEMENT END DATE MAXIMUM AGREEMENT AMOUNT

 2/1/2007 12/31/2008 3350000

 EXHIBITS. The following Exhibits are attached and are incorporated into this Agreement by reference: Exhibits (specify): No Exhibits.

 The terms and conditions of this Agreement are an integration and representation of the final, entire and exclusive understanding between the parties superseding and merging all previous agreements, writings, and communications, oral or otherwise regarding the subject matter of this Agreement, between the parties. The parties signing below represent they have read and understand this Agreement, and have the authority to execute this Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding on DSHS only upon signature by DSHS.

 CONTRACTOR SIGNATURE PRINTED NAME AND TITLE DATE SIGNED

 DSHS SIGNATURE PRINTED NAME AND TITLE DATE SIGNED

 1. Definitions. The words and phrases listed below, as used in this Contract, shall each have the following definitions:

 a. "Central Contract Services" means the DSHS central headquarters contracting office, or successor section or office.

 b. "Contract" means the entire written agreement between DSHS and the Contractor, including any Exhibits, documents, and materials incorporated by reference.

 c. "Contracts Administrator" means the manager, or successor, of Central Contract Services or successor section or office.

 d. "Contractor" means the individual or entity performing services pursuant to this Contract and includes the Contractor's owners, members, officers, directors, partners, employees, and/or agents, unless otherwise stated in this Contract. For purposes of any permitted Subcontract, "Contractor" includes any Subcontractor and its owners, members, officers, directors, partners, employees, and/or agents. The Contractor for this contract is: Seattle, City of.

 e. "Debarment" means an action taken by a Federal official to exclude a person or business entity from participating in transactions involving certain federal funds.

 f. "DSHS" or the "Department" means the state of Washington Department of Social and Health Services and its employees and authorized agents.

 g. "Personal Information" means information identifiable to any person, including, but not limited to, information that relates to a person's name, health, finances, education, business, use or receipt of governmental services or other activities, addresses, telephone numbers, Social Security Numbers, driver license numbers, other identifying numbers, and any financial identifiers.

 h. "RCW" means the Revised Code of Washington. All references in this Contract to RCW chapters or sections shall include any successor, amended, or replacement statute. Pertinent RCW chapters can be accessed at http://slc.leg.wa.gov/.

 i. "Regulation" means any federal, state, or local regulation, rule, or ordinance.

 j. "Subcontract" means any separate agreement or contract between the Contractor and an individual or entity ("Subcontractor") to perform all or a portion of the duties and obligations that the Contractor is obligated to perform pursuant to this Contract.

 k. "Subrecipient" means a non-federal entity that expends federal awards received from a pass-through entity to carry out a federal program, but does not include an individual that is a beneficiary of such a program. A subrecipient may also be a recipient of other federal awards directly from a federal awarding agency.

 l. "WAC" means the Washington Administrative Code. All references in this Contract to WAC chapters or sections shall include any successor, amended, or replacement regulation. Pertinent WAC chapters or sections can be accessed at http://slc.leg.wa.gov/.

 2. Amendment. This Agreement may only be modified by a written amendment signed by both parties. Only personnel authorized to bind each of the parties may sign an amendment.

 3. Assignment. The Contractor shall not assign this Agreement or Program Agreement to a third party without the prior written consent of DSHS.

 4. Billing Limitations.

 a. DSHS shall pay the Contractor only for authorized services provided in accordance with this Contract.

 b. DSHS shall not pay any claims for payment for services submitted more than twelve (12) months after the calendar month in which the services were performed.

 c. The Contractor shall not bill and DSHS shall not pay for services performed under this Contract, if the Contractor has charged or will charge the state of Washington or any other party for the same services.

 5. Compliance with Applicable Law. At all times during the term of this Contract, the Contractor shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including but not limited to, nondiscrimination laws and regulations.

 6. Confidentiality. The Contractor may use Personal Information and other information gained by reason of this Agreement only for the purpose of this Agreement. The Contractor shall not disclose, transfer, or sell any such information to any party, except as provided by law or, in the case of Personal Information, without the prior written consent of the person to whom the Personal Information pertains. The Contractor shall maintain the confidentiality of all Personal Information and other information gained by reason of this Agreement, and shall return or certify the destruction of such information if requested in writing by DSHS.

 7. Debarment Certification. The Contractor, by signature to this contract, certifies that the Contractor is not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded by any Federal department or agency from participating in transactions. The Contractor also agrees to include the above requirement in any and all subcontracts into which it enters.

 8. Governing Law and Venue. This contract shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the state of Washington and the venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in Superior Court for Thurston County. In the event that an action is removed to U.S. District Court, venue shall be in the Western District of Washington.

 9. Independent Contractor. The parties intend that an independent contractor relationship will be created by this contract. The Contractor and his or her employees or agents performing under this contract are not employees or agents of the Department. The Contractor, his or her employees, or agents performing under this contract will not hold himself/herself out as, nor claim to be, an officer or employee of the Department by reason hereof, nor will the Contractor, his or her employees, or agent make any claim of right, privilege or benefit that would accrue to such employee.

 10. Inspection. In addition to any rights of access or inspection that may be included in the Special Terms and Conditions, or in any Program Agreement, the Contractor shall provide reasonable access to the Contractor's place of business, Contractor records, and client records, to DSHS and to any authorized agent of the state of Washington or the federal government in order to monitor, audit, and evaluate the Contractor's performance and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and these Contract terms during the term of this Contract and for one (1) year following termination or expiration of this Contract.

 11. Maintenance of Records. The Contractor shall maintain records relating to this contract and the performance of the services described herein, including but not limited to accounting procedures and practices, which sufficiently and properly reflect all direct and indirect costs of any nature expended in the performance of this contract. All records and other material relevant to this contract shall be retained for six (6) years after expiration or termination of this contract. At no additional cost, these records shall be subject at all reasonable times to inspection, review or audit by the department, personnel duly authorized by the department, the Office of the State Auditor, and any federal and state officials so authorized by law, regulation or agreement.

 If any litigation, claim or audit is started before the expiration of the six (6) year period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims or audit findings involving the records have been resolved.

 12. Order of Precedence. In the event of any inconsistency or conflict between the General Terms and Conditions and the Special Terms and Conditions of this agreement or any Program Agreement, the inconsistency or conflict shall be resolved by giving precedence to these General Terms and Conditions.

 13. Severability. If any term or condition of this Contract is held invalid by any court, such invalidity shall not affect the validity of the other terms or conditions of this Contract.

 14. Survivability. The terms and conditions contained in this Agreement or any Program Agreement which, by their sense and context, are intended to survive the expiration or termination of the particular agreement shall survive. Surviving terms include, but are not limited to: Billing Limitations; Confidentiality, Disputes; Indemnification and Hold Harmless, Inspection, Maintenance of Records, Notice of Overpayment, Ownership of Material, Termination for Default, Termination Procedure, and Treatment of Property.

 15. Termination Due to Change in Funding. If the funds DSHS relied upon to establish this Agreement or Program Agreement are withdrawn, reduced or limited, or if additional or modified conditions are placed on such funding, DSHS may immediately terminate this Agreement by providing written notice to the Contractor. The termination shall be effective on the date specified in the termination notice.

 16. Waiver. Waiver of any breach or default on any occasion shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any subsequent breach or default. Any waiver shall not be construed to be a modification of the terms and conditions of this Contract. Only the DSHS Chief Administrative Officer or designee has the authority to waive any term or condition of this Contract on behalf of DSHS.

 Additional General Terms and Conditions - Interlocal Agreements:

 17. Disputes. Disputes shall be determined by a Dispute Board. Each party to this Agreement shall appoint one member to the Dispute Board. The members so appointed shall jointly appoint an additional member to the Dispute Board. The Dispute Board shall review the facts, Agreement terms, and applicable statutes and rules and make a determination of the dispute. As an alternative to this process, either party may request intervention by the Governor, as provided by RCW 43.17.330, in which event the Governor's process shall control. Participation in either dispute process shall precede any judicial or quasi-judicial action and shall be the final administrative remedy available to the parties.

 18. Hold Harmless.

 a. The Contractor shall be responsible for and shall hold DSHS harmless from all claims, loss, liability, damages, or fines arising out of or relating to the Contractor's, or any Subcontractor's, performance or failure to perform this Agreement, or the acts or omissions of the Contractor or any Subcontractor. DSHS shall be responsible for and shall hold the Contractor harmless from all claims, loss, liability, damages, or fines arising out of or relating to DSHS' performance or failure to perform this Agreement.

 b. The Contractor waives its immunity under Title 51 RCW to the extent it is required to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the State and its agencies, officials, agents, or employees.

 19. Ownership of Material. Material created by the Contractor and paid for by DSHS as a part of this Contract shall be owned by DSHS and shall be "work made for hire" as defined by Title 17 USCA, Section 101. This material includes, but is not limited to: books; computer programs; documents; films; pamphlets; reports; sound reproductions; studies; surveys; tapes; and/or training materials. Material which the Contractor uses to perform the Contract but is not created for or paid for by DSHS is owned by the Contractor and is not "work made for hire"; however, DSHS shall have a perpetual license to use this material for DSHS internal purposes at no charge to DSHS, provided that such license shall be limited to the extent which the Contractor has a right to grant such a license.

 20. Subrecipients.

 a. General. If the Contractor is a subrecipient of federal awards as defined by Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-133 and this Agreement, the Contractor shall:

 (1) Maintain records that identify, in its accounts, all federal awards received and expended and the federal programs under which they were received, by Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) title and number, award number and year, name of the federal agency, and name of the pass-through entity;

 (2) Maintain internal controls that provide reasonable assurance that the Contractor is managing federal awards in compliance with laws, regulations, and provisions of contracts or grant agreements that could have a material effect on each of its federal programs;

 (3) Prepare appropriate financial statements, including a schedule of expenditures of federal awards;

 (4) Incorporate OMB Circular A-133 audit requirements into all agreements between the Contractor and its Subcontractors who are subrecipients;

 (5) Comply with any future amendments to OMB Circular A-133 and any successor or replacement Circular or regulation;

 (6) Comply with the applicable requirements of OMB Circular A-87 and any future amendments to OMB Circular A-87, and any successor or replacement Circular or regulation; and

 (7) Comply with the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe streets Act of 1968, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and The Department of Justice Non-Discrimination Regulations, 28 C.F.R. Part 42, Subparts C.D.E. and G, and 28 C.F.R. Part 35 and 39. (Go to www.ojp.usdoj.gov/ocr/ for additional information and access to the aforementioned Federal laws and regulations.)

 b. Single Audit Act Compliance. If the Contractor is a subrecipient and expends $500,000 or more in federal awards from any and/or all sources in any fiscal year, the Contractor shall procure and pay for a single audit or a program-specific audit for that fiscal year. Upon completion of each audit, the Contractor shall:

 (1) Submit to the DSHS contact person the data collection form and reporting package specified in OMB Circular A-133, reports required by the program-specific audit guide (if applicable), and a copy of any management letters issued by the auditor;

 (2) Follow-up and develop corrective action for all audit findings; in accordance with OMB Circular A-133, prepare a "Summary Schedule of Prior Audit Findings."

 c. Overpayments. If it is determined by DSHS, or during the course of a required audit, that the Contractor has been paid unallowable costs under this or any Program Agreement, DSHS may require the Contractor to reimburse DSHS in accordance with OMB Circular A-87.

 21. Termination.

 a. Default. If for any cause, either party fails to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement in a timely and proper manner, or if either party violates any of the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, then the aggrieved party will give the other party written notice of such failure or violation. The responsible party will be given 15 working days to correct the violation or failure. If the failure or violation is not corrected, this Agreement may be terminated immediately by written notice from the aggrieved party to the other party.

 b. Convenience. Either party may terminate this Interlocal Agreement for any other reason by providing 30 calendar days' written notice to the other party.

 c. Payment for Performance. If this Interlocal Agreement is terminated for any reason, DSHS shall only pay for performance rendered or costs incurred in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and prior to the effective date of termination.

 22. Treatment of Client Property. Unless otherwise provided, the Contractor shall ensure that any adult client receiving services from the Contractor has unrestricted access to the client's personal property. The Contractor shall not interfere with any adult client's ownership, possession, or use of the client's property. The Contractor shall provide clients under age eighteen (18) with reasonable access to their personal property that is appropriate to the client's age, development, and needs. Upon termination of the Contract, the Contractor shall immediately release to the client and/or the client's guardian or custodian all of the client's personal property.

 APPROVED AS TO FORM BY THE OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

 1. Definitions Specific to Special Terms. The words and phrases listed below, as used in this Agreement, shall each have the following definitions:

 a. "Care Management RN" means a Care Management Nurse who provides care management services to enrollees on a face-to-face basis and telephonically. Care Management services are provided to enrollees who are assessed as high risk.

 b. "Care Coordinator" means a person who works with providers, clinic staff, and community partners to improve health outcomes for low and moderate risk clients with chronic illness.

 c. "Care Plan" means a written plan initiated and developed by the care team and the enrollee that outlines specific educational and/or behavioral self-management goals. The care plan should also address any special needs of the client, and the client and care team strive to achieve the best possible health outcomes implicit in the care plan. The care plan is shared with the entire health care team. It may also be referred to as "the plan of care".

 d. "Care Coordination" means "The deliberate integration of patient care activities between two or more participants involved in a patient's care to facilitate the appropriate delivery of health care services. Integrating care involves the marshalling of personnel and other resources needed to carry out all required patient care activities, and is often managed by the exchange of information among participants responsible for different aspects of care."

 e. "Chronic Care Management Program (CCM Program)" means a comprehensive program that identifies clients at risk for disease, or who have a disease, targets them for intervention, provides a system to ensure the interventions occur, and coordinates with other health care providers to ensure the enrollee gets needed services.

 f. "Cost Neutrality" means the cost of operating the Chronic Care Management program, including the predictive modeling and care management components, does not exceed the amount of money saved by the program during the contract period.

 g. "Electronic Health Record" means a computer-based system of maintaining a patient's health record in digital form. Eventually, technology may allow methods for confidentially sharing this information.

 h. "Emergency Medical Condition" means a medical condition manifesting itself by acute symptoms of sufficient severity (including severe pain) that a prudent layperson, who possesses an average knowledge of health and medicine, could reasonably expect the absence of immediate medical attention to result in placing the health of the individual (or, with respect to a pregnant woman, the health of the woman or her unborn child) in serious jeopardy, serious impairments to bodily functions, or serious dysfunction of any bodily organ or part (42 UCS 1396u-2(b)(2)(c.

 i. "Evidence Based Medicine" means systematically developed statements derived from relevant research and clinical expertise that are intended to assist practitioner and patient decisions about appropriate health care for specific clinical circumstances.

 j. "Local Care Management" or "LCM" means one of the contracted area- specific medical home and care management programs.

 k. "Medical Home" means an approach to providing health care services in a high-quality and cost-effective manner. The care provided through a medical home is accessible, family-centered, comprehensive, continuous, coordinated, compassionate and culturally competent.

 l. "Participant" means a client who has been contacted by the Contractor's care management staff, and has agreed to participate in the Chronic Care Management program.

 m. "PIC" means Personal Identification Code used by DSHS to identify individuals who are eligible to receive Medicaid program benefits.

 n. "Poly prescribers" means multiple providers prescribing for a single patient. Multiple prescriptions may result in duplicate medications, or medications that counteract one another or interact in harmful ways.

 o. "Poly pharmacy" means multiple locations at which a single patient is obtaining prescriptions.

 p. "Predictive Modeling" means using historical claims data to predict future utilization of services.

 q. "Primary Care Provider" means a provider who has the responsibility for supervising, coordinating, and providing primary health care to enrollees, initiating referrals for specialist care, and maintaining the continuity of enrollee care. PCPs include, but are not limited to Pediatricians, Family Practitioners, General Practitioners, Internists, Physician Assistants (under the supervision of a physician), or Advanced Registered Nurse Practitioners (ARNP). The definition of primary care provider is inclusive of the definition of primary care physician in 42 CFR 400.203.

 r. "Registry" means a chronic disease registry is a patient-centered electronic database tool that enables providers to share information to better manage chronic illness.

 s. "Self-Care or Self-Management" means the concept of the patient being the driver of their own care with guidance from the health care team. The goal of self-management is to improve one's health outcomes through education, monitoring, adherence to evidence-based guidelines and active involvement in the decision-making process with the health care team.

 t. "Statewide Care Management program" or "SCM" means a comprehensive care management program that serves all areas of the State not served by a Local Care Management Program. The SCM also provides client identification and referral to LCM programs through predictive modeling.

 2. Purpose. The purpose of this Agreement is to provide a locally based model of care management through community based agencies with a medical provider network to Medicaid enrollees. This program will offer a comprehensive, voluntary program that incorporates care management, education and assistance to clients to assist them in managing their disease, and coordination of medical services. The goals of the program are to:

 a. Identify clients who need care management, using the results of the predictive modeling conducted by United Healthcare Services (UHS), the Contractor for the Statewide Care Management Program;

 b. Support medical home development for Medicaid clients;

 c. Improve health outcomes for program participants using evidence- based medicine; and

 d. Intervene with participants to prevent avoidable medical costs through improving self-management skills.

 3. Statement of Work. The Contractor shall provide the services and staff, and otherwise do all things necessary for or incidental to the performance of work, as set forth in this Agreement, the Contractor's response to RFP No. HRSA/OCC - 0106 and in the attached, Exhibit A, Statement of Work Supplement.

 The Contractor shall provide the King County Local Care Management (LCM) program to provide innovative, client-focused care management that addresses the barriers to appropriate care for chronic illness from both the provider and participant perspective. The Contractor shall help to reduce catastrophic events and chronic illness, improve client health outcomes and provide cost effective services at the local level.

 The Contractor shall provide support services to providers who see program participants and shall attempt to connect each participant who did not previously have a medical home with a primary care provider and nurse care manager, as well as a care management component to provide participants with care coordination, education and support services.

 The Local Care Management (LCM) project described in this Agreement, the Statewide Care Management (SCM) provided by United Healthcare Services (UHS) and Local Care Management programs covered by other contracts together make up the Chronic Care Management (CCM) program.

 4. Monitoring/Reporting Requirements.

 a. The Contractor shall:

 (1) Provide verification of services via client surveys of participants, reports submitted to DSHS as described in Subsection a.(2) of this Section, and by tracking the outcome measures described in Subsection a.(4) of this Section.

 (2) Provide the reports described in this Subsection, in the timeframes required:

 (a) Monthly reports: The Contractor shall provide the following reports within the limits of data provided by DSHS and UHS:

 i. A client-specific file listing all participants by PIC who have agreed to participate in the CCM program for that month. This file will be used to enter participant and payment information into the MMIS system;

 ii. A report showing the top 25% of participants who utilized medical services most frequently during the previous month, with profiles of utilization. The Contractor shall develop this report using data provided by United Healthcare Services;

 iii. A participant-specific report detailing by PIC (or other identifier) the baseline utilization and cost history of all new participants, including:

 (A) Markers of risk for all participants;

 (B) Forecasted savings by participant by category of services;

 (C) Number of attempts to recruit by telephone, mail and/or in person, and the results of contact attempts Medicaid eligibles to become participants;

 (D) For those Medicaid eligibles who were contacted, assessed, and who agreed to participate in CCM:

 * Date of assessment

 * Results of initial screening and HRA for each new participant;

 * Start and projected end date of care plan for intervention;

 * Name of the client's Primary Care Provider if the participant has one;

 * Disease profile (primary condition/co-morbidities);

 * Self-identified race and ethnicity (if client elects to provide this information);

 iv. A report showing participants whose participation in the CCM program was ended because the participant:

 (A) Died;

 (B) Became ineligible for DSHS services;

 (C) Became institutionalized or began receiving Long Term Care services;

 (D) Elected hospice benefits;

 (E) Made a request to end participation in the program; or

 (F) Graduated from the program.

 (b) Quarterly Reports: Quarterly, the Contractor shall provide the following summary information for all participants:

 i. Participant understanding of information provided by his or her PCP or other providers at the time of initial assessment and at quarterly intervals, as long as the participant's participation in CCM continues;

 ii. Assessment and tracking of non-disease specific measures of risk: smoking, exposure to second hand smoke, immunization against flu and pneumonia, nutritional status, etc;

 iii. Number of referrals for mental health and chemical dependency treatment;

 iv. Prescription counseling for poly-pharmacy, poly-prescribers and participant adherence to medications as prescribed;

 v. Proportion of participants with evidence of:

 (A) The need for substance abuse treatment who are referred for treatment where follow-up indicates successful completion of treatment;

 (B) Chronic pain diagnosis who are referred to a pain management specialist and have an active care plan developed and implemented by an interdisciplinary health care team;

 (C) Narcotic prescriptions through the ER or from same or multiple practitioners; and

 (D) Adherence to prescribed treatment, including keeping office appointments and making progress in stabilizing or improving their condition;

 vi. The number of participants who "graduate" from the program and return within a six month period.

 (c) Quarterly Utilization Reports. The Contractor shall report the following utilization measures quarterly for participants in CCM, with racial and ethnic breakdowns:

 i. Number of participants with emergency department visits and the number of visits per participant;

 ii. Number of participants with hospitalizations, number of stays and duration of each stay;

 iii. Number of participants with primary care or specialty care visits during the quarter; and

 iv. Number of referrals, by language, for interpreter services through Hopelink, the DSHS Transportation and Interpreter Services Broker for King County;

 (3) Maintain the following information in individual participant records and make available for review upon request by DSHS:

 (a) Information and education provided to the participant to help improve the participant's self-management skills;

 (b) An ongoing record of the participant's health status. This record must be kept for the duration of the participant's participation in the CCM program;

 (4) Meet the following outcomes, as measured against the baseline. These outcomes will be tracked on a quarterly basis by the Contractor and by DSHS:

 (a) Decrease the number of unnecessary hospital admissions and emergency department by 5% of the baseline;

 (b) Increase the number of medical home assignments for eligible clients by 10% of the baseline;

 (c) Increase the number of participants referred to mental health and chemical dependency treatment;

 (d) Improvement of overall health status for CCM participants from the initial HRA until "graduation" from the CCM program; and

 (e) Decrease the number of participants who receive narcotic prescriptions through the ER or from the same or multiple practitioners by 5% of baseline.

 (5) Be responsible for care management services provided to the participant in any month for which DSHS paid the Contractor for the participant's care under the terms of this Agreement.

 b. DSHS shall:

 (1) Withhold 5% of the monthly payment to be made to the Contractor until the reports described in Subsection a. of this Section have been received and accepted by DSHS. Upon acceptance of the reports and a completed A-19 invoice voucher, DSHS shall pay the Contractor the remaining 5% of the payment for the previous month;

 (2) Monitor Contractor performance on an ongoing basis as described in this Section, by reviewing monthly and quarterly reports, conducting regular meetings with the Contractor either in person or by teleconference, and conducting periodic on-site monitoring visits;

 (3) Reserve the right to conduct on-site monitoring visits to the Contractor's site of operations. DSHS shall provide the Contractor with at least 30 calendar days notice of the visit, along with a checklist of documents and records that will be reviewed during the visit;

 (4) Conduct periodic medical audits to ensure that each contractor furnishes quality and accessible health care. DSHS shall conduct audits at least once a year;

 (5) Evaluate the cost savings realized by the program. For purposes of the cost-savings evaluation, DSHS shall assign high risk clients, who otherwise qualify to become Participants, into two groups: A "treatment group", who will offered the opportunity to become Participants in the initial program period, and the "abeyance group", who will be offered the opportunity to become Participants in the second year of the program. However, if a high risk client in the "abeyance group" requests to become a Participant in the first year of the program, he or she will be assessed for participation.

 DSHS shall compare the costs of treatment of members of the "abeyance group" with those in the "treatment group" on a per member per month basis during the first year of the program. DSHS shall conduct the first year evaluation 18 months after the first month of Participant enrollment; and

 (6) Track medical and pharmacy expenditures paid for participants on a quarterly basis, beginning in July of 2007, to ensure cost savings are adequate to cover the costs of the Contractor's Medical Home Infrastructure and care management activities. DSHS shall share the results of tracking with the Contractor.

 5. Quality Improvement. The Contractor shall:

 a. Have in place a written Quality Assurance and Improvement Program, that;

 (1) Describes how the new program will fit into the Contractor's overall quality strategy;

 (2) Describes how the critical measures described above will be tracked; and

 (3) Identifies the methods that the Contractor will use to measure and improve the indicators described in Section 4, Monitoring/Reporting Requirements;

 (4) Track and review program data, and develop quality improvement plans that address any areas in which goals are not met.

 b. Coordinate with DSHS to resolve participant complaints. The Contractor shall assist DSHS in prompt resolution of complaints; including expedited resolutions and/or corrective action where necessary and ensuring, the participants are informed of their right to a DSHS Hearing.

 c. Make available a grievance process that participants may access at any time. This process must allow for prompt resolution of participant grievances, including expedited resolution and informing participants of their right to a DSHS hearing. DSHS shall coordinate with the Contractor to ensure prompt corrective action in resolving grievances, and exchange of information about grievances and the grievance resolution process.

 6. Consideration.

 a. Maximum Contract Amount. Total consideration payable to Contractor for satisfactory performance of the work under this Contract is up to a maximum of $3,350,000.00 including any and all expenses, and shall be based upon the following payments:

 (1) An $ 8.70 per participant per month payment for infrastructure and network development in the Contractor's Medical Home program. Of this amount, the Contractor shall pay no less than $2.50 per participant per month to Primary Care Providers who participate in the Medical Home program.

 (2) A $ 123.00 per participant per month payment for care management services. This rate will be paid only for participants who agree to actively participate in the Contractor's care management as evidenced by monthly participant specific reports.

 b. Source(s) of Funds. The above maximum amount payable under this Contract, for the services to be provided in based on the amount(s) of funding from the following sources:

 (1) $1,675,000.00 is allotted under this Contract from federal funds received under CFDA # 93.778;

 (2) $1,675,000.00 is allotted under this Contract from GF-S (General Funds-State) funds; and

 (3) $-0- shall be provided as matching funds by the Contractor.

 c. Funding Stipulations.

 (1) Information for Federal Funding. The Contractor shall cooperate in supplying any information to DSHS that may be needed to determine DSHS or the client's eligibility for federal funding.

 (2) No Federal Match. The Contractor shall not use funds payable under this Contract as match toward federal funds.

 (3) Supplanting. The Contractor shall use these funds to supplement, not supplant the amount of federal, state and local funds otherwise expended or services provided under this Contract.

 d. Prohibition of Use of Funds for Lobbying Activities. The Contractor shall not use funds payable under this Contract for lobbying activities of any nature. The Contractor certifies that no state or federal funds payable under this Contract shall be paid to any person or organization to influence, or attempt to influence, either directly or indirectly, an officer or employee of an state or federal agency, or an officer or member of any state or federal legislative body or committee, regarding the award, amendment, modification, extension, or renewal of a state or federal contract or grant.

 7. Payment.

 a. DSHS shall:

 (1) Make payment no later than the 15th working day of the month, based on the DSHS list of participants whose enrollment is ongoing or effective on the first day of said calendar month. Such payment will be denied for new participants when, and for so long as, payment for those enrollees is denied by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) under 42 CFR 438.726(b) and 42 CFR 438.730(e).

 (2) Make a full monthly payment to the Contractor for the month in which a participant's enrollment is terminated except as otherwise provided herein.

 (3) Identify on the monthly payment listing those participants whose enrollment is terminated at the end of that month.

 (4) Withhold, at its sole discretion, 5% of the payment claimed by the Contractor for services rendered if Contractor fails to satisfactorily comply with any term or condition of this Agreement.

 b. The Contractor shall reconcile the payment listing with remittance advice information and submit a claim to DSHS for any amount due the Contractor within three hundred sixty five (365) calendar days of the month of service. When DSHS' records confirm the Contractor's claim, DSHS shall remit payment within thirty (30) calendar days of the receipt of the claim.

 8. Disputes

 Requesting dispute resolution:

 The request for dispute resolution by either party shall:

 (1) Be submitted to HRSA in writing and include the Contractor's name, address and the DSHS contract number;

 (2) Be sent by certified mail or other method providing a signed receipt to the sender to prove delivery to and receipt by HRSA, to the following address

 Chief, Finance Office

 Division of Business and Finance

 Health and Recovery Services Administration

 PO Box 45500

 Olympia, Washington 98504-5500

 (3) Be received by the Chief of the Finance Office no later than twenty-eight (28) calendar days after this Agreement expiration or termination.

 (4) Identify in writing the spokesperson for the Contractor, if other than the Contractor's signatory.

 b. Content of the dispute request:

 The party requesting a dispute resolution shall submit a statement that:

 (1) Identifies the issue(s) in dispute

 (2) Identifies the relative positions of the parties

 (3) Requests resolution through the current HRSA process

 c. Action on the request:

 (1) HRSA shall notify the non-requesting party that the request has been made, notify both parties of the dispute resolution process to be followed, and manage the process to its conclusion.

 (2) The Contractor shall provide pertinent information as requested by the person assigned to resolve the dispute.

 d. Contractor and DSHS agree that, the existence of a dispute notwithstanding, they will continue without delay to carry out all their respective responsibilities under this Agreement that are not affected by the dispute.

 9. Insurance.

 a. DSHS certifies that it is self-insured under the State's self- insurance liability program, as provided by RCW 4.92.130, and shall pay for losses for which it is found liable.

 b. The Contractor certifies, by checking the appropriate box below, initialing to the left of the box selected, and signing this Agreement, that:

 The Contractor is self-insured or insured through a risk pool and shall pay for losses for which it is found liable; or

 The Contractor maintains the types and amounts of insurance identified below and shall, prior to the execution of this Agreement by DSHS, provide certificates of insurance to that effect to the DSHS contact on page one of this Agreement.

 Commercial General Liability Insurance (CGL) - to include coverage for bodily injury, property damage, and contractual liability, with the following minimum limits: Each Occurrence - $1,000,000; General Aggregate - $2,000,000. The policy shall include liability arising out of premises, operations, independent contractors, products- completed operations, personal injury, advertising injury, and liability assumed under an insured contract. The State of Washington, DSHS, its elected and appointed officials, agents, and employees shall be named as additional insureds.

 Exhibit A

 Statement of Work Supplement

 1. CHRONIC CARE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

 The Contractor shall:

 a. Provide a Local Care Management (LCM) program for eligible Medicaid clients residing in King County; that consists of Medical Home Development and Chronic Care Management services as described below, and more fully in the Contractor's response to DSHS Request for Proposals HRSA/OCC - 0106;

 b. Receive information regarding eligible clients in the service area on a monthly basis, from the SCM Contractor, United Healthcare Services (UHS), in compliance with DSHS data security requirements;

 c. Provide infrastructure support and network development under the Medical Home Development component of the program, for participants who are currently patients of providers in the Contractor's network. The Contractor shall also work to expand the network of available Primary Care Providers willing to serve Medicaid clients;

 d. Deliver a holistic care management program for high risk Medicaid clients (participants) with multiple chronic conditions, that:

 (1) Takes into account cultural, educational, social, and economic issues that affect the enrollee's ability to manage chronic diseases;

 (2) Assists participants to connect to services that reduce the chance of catastrophic or severe illness and promotes continuity of care to reduce unnecessary visits to the Emergency Room for services that would better be provided in a primary care setting;

 (3) Incorporates a community-based focus, including referral and linkage to medical, mental health, chemical dependency service providers, and other needed social services;

 (4) Reduces the cost of medical claims paid by DSHS in an amount at least equivalent to the amount paid to the Contractor in fees for predictive modeling and care management services;

 e. Coordinate and collaborate with American Indian/Alaska Native (AI/AN) tribal clinics and facilities, Urban Indian Clinics and other AI/AN associations to identify clients at high risk and provide care management or support for tribal clinic interventions as necessary.

 f. The LCM PROGRAM: The Contractor shall provide a Local Care Management Program consisting of two components:

 (1) Medical Home Infrastructure Program (MHI). The Contractor shall provide infrastructure and support services to those clinics and providers who are currently providing a Medical Home to eligible clients. Services shall include education and support services to providers and clients to ensure clients are able continue in their Medical Home. Additionally, the Contractor shall work to increase the network of medical providers in King County willing and able to provide a Medical Home to program participants.

 (a) DSHS shall automatically enroll all eligible Medicaid-only clients in the Medical Home Program for assistance in locating a Medical Home; however, clients may choose to voluntarily disenroll ("opt-out") of the program at any time. Enrollees may call the Medical Assistance Customer Service Center (MACSC) to disenroll from the LCM program. The disenrollment will be effective the first of the month following the month in which the request was made. If a client loses Medicaid eligibility and then regains it, DSHS shall automatically re-enroll the client.

 (b) If, at a later date, the eligible client decides to participate in the program, s/he may re-enroll at any time by calling the MACSC and requesting enrollment. DSHS shall then notify the Contractor that the eligible client has re-enrolled in the program effective the first of the following month.

 (2) Care Coordination: The Contractor shall provide a care management program to high-risk clients referred by community providers or identified by the Statewide Care Management Contractor, United Healthcare Services (UHS) and provide the following to all enrollees in the care management program, regardless of disease or condition:

 (a) Screen and assess risk factors, health status, self-management skills, adherence to provider's treatment plan, knowledge or and adherence to prescribed medications, as well as the client's specific needs, including limited English proficiency and health literacy;

 (b) Attempt to link the client to a medical home if the client does not have one;

 (c) Facilitate development of a medical treatment plan with the participant's provider if one does not already exist;

 (d) Develop a care plan specific to the areas of risk identified above, including goals set together with the client, so the client develops the skills to:

 i. Self-manage his/her condition;

 ii. Understand the appropriate use of resources needed to care for his/her condition(s);

 iii. Identify "triggers" that negatively affect his/her health condition with the goal of seeking appropriate attention before he or she reaches crisis level;

 iv. Utilize the health care system appropriately, making and keeping scheduled appointments with primary care or other providers;

 v. Develop the ability to address barriers to using the health care system; and

 vi. Reach agreement with his or her medical provider on a treatment plan and adhere to that plan.

 (e) Develop interventions to educate participants on the skills described above, including how to navigate through the complex medical and social services systems.

 (f) Coordinate referrals and mental health intake evaluations for participants who request mental health services or who are assessed in the initial screening as needing mental health services. If a participant is referred to the local Regional Support Network (RSN) or Community Mental Health Agency (CMHA), the Contractor's staff shall request that the participant sign a release of information form to facilitate exchange of information between the mental health system and the care management program. If the participant does not meet the Mental Health Access to Care Standards, the Care Manager shall use the information obtained in the mental health intake evaluations to assist the enrollee and PCP to coordinate a treatment plan through the PCP's office and care management program.

 (g) Offer telephonic and in-person enrollment and assessment of new clients;

 (h) Provide telephonic and in-person education, including at least one joint visit to the primary care provider within the first two months of a client's agreement to participate in the program;

 (i) Develop and document care and education plans for enrollees at risk for costly medical utilization;

 2. ELIGIBLE POPULATION

 a. The Contractor shall offer care management to high risk Medicaid and Dual Eligible Medicare/Medicaid adults who are Categorically Needy, Aged, Blind and Disabled and who have been identified through Predictive Modeling or referred by providers within King County.

 b. The eligible population will exclude:

 (1) Clients receiving home and community based long term care services case managed by DSHS's Aging and Disability Services Administration (ADSA);

 (2) Clients under age 21;

 (3) Clients who are eligible for enrollment in the Department's Healthy Options managed care program;

 (4) Clients receiving hospice services; and

 (5) Clients enrolled in one of the following:

 (a) The Washington Medicaid Integration Partnership (WMIP);

 (b) The Medicare/Medicaid Integration Program (MMIP); or

 (c) The PACE program.

 (6) Clients with Third Party Coverage that provides a comparable service; or

 (7) Clients who become eligible for Medicare coverage, except as described in Section 3.g. below.

 3. ENROLLMENT

 a. The Contractor shall receive a list of clients as the result of the SCM Contractor's predictive modeling program and shall contact high risk clients based on the predictive modeling output and criteria for identifying high risk clients.

 b. The Contractor shall contact those clients identified on the list of potential participants provided by DSHS in accordance with agreed upon timelines and within the limitations of available data, within sixty (60) calendar days of identification. The Contractor shall document attempts to reach high risk and hard-to-reach clients.

 c. The Contractor shall also have a process for receiving referrals from participating providers, DSHS case managers, or community members, and verifying that they meet the criteria for the enrollment population as described above.

 d. Clients must actively agree to participate in the Care Management program and will be enrolled only after contact and assessment by the Contractor. The Contractor will send DSHS a list of active participants by the 15th of each month, and their enrollment will be entered into the MMIS for the following month. The participation period for care management is six months, unless the participant decides to opt out of the program. After six months, the Contractor must notify DSHS if the participant requires an extension or if the Care Management program is complete.

 e. The Contractor shall ensure that an initial screening for health risk and the need for care management is conducted by enrollment staff or by subcontracted Information and Assistance (I & A) staff. Any client that is determined by the initial screening to be either high risk or a client with poor health status will be referred to RN care managers for a comprehensive assessment. The assessment conducted by care managers shall include screening for housing status using the Contractor's standard questionnaire. DSHS and the Contractor will coordinate to develop additional questions during the contract period. The frequency of follow-up during the participation period will be determined based on the risk level of the enrollee.

 f. The Contractor shall make and document at least three attempts to reach all newly referred clients, including one informational mailing, and shall contact the client either by telephone or in person if the client does not have a telephone, or is unable to use the telephone. In-person visits with hard-to-reach clients may be required to ensure adequate care management is provided.

 g. If a participant becomes eligible for Medicare during the last three months of the participation period, the participant may continue receiving care management services until the participation period ends, but may not re-enroll in the program at a later date. If the participant becomes eligible for Medicare during the first three months of the participation period, he or she shall be disenrolled from the program.

 h. The Contractor shall develop and send informational letters that describe the program to providers and new enrollees. DSHS shall also provide updated information to enrollees and providers, as necessary, to inform them of significant changes to the program at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the effective date of the change. Such changes include changes in eligibility requirements, addition or subtraction of Contractors, or other significant changes to the program.

 i. The Contractor may not refuse participation in the Care Management Program to any client because of diminished mental capacity or uncooperative or disruptive behavior resulting from his or her special needs, except when his or her continued enrollment in the CCM Program seriously impairs the Contractor's ability to furnish services to either the particular client or other clients, or places the Contractor's staff in an unsafe situation.

 j. A LCM enrollee or his/her representative may request disenrollment from the program at any time for any reason by calling the MACSC. CCM enrollees or their representatives may also request re-enrollment into the program at any time. Enrollment in the program or disenrollment from the program shall be made prospectively for the month following the month in which the request was made. If the Contractor receives a disenrollment request, the Contractor shall notify DSHS by the 15th of the month.

 k. The Contractor shall not discriminate against individuals eligible to participate in the LCM based on race, color, or national origin, and will not use any policy or practice that has the effect of discriminating based on race, color, or national origin. Additionally, the Contractor shall not discriminate based on health status or need of health care services (42 CFR 438.6(d)(3) and (4.

 4. PROVIDER OUTREACH AND PARTICIPATION. To meet the requirements of the Medical Home Infrastructure (MHI) program, the Contractor shall :

 a. Assist providers who participate in the MHI program to maintain a central care plan; share information among the patient, family and consultants; ensure adequate support and education for the patient and family.

 b. Develop arrangements for providers to refer enrollees for care management;

 c. Refer enrollees to medical homes;

 d. Coordinate with providers while enrollee is in care management;

 e. Educate providers on evidence-based medicine;

 f. Obtain quality measures from providers and relay feedback on performance to providers;

 g. Engage providers in quality improvement activities; and

 h. Assist providers and clients to transition care management participants who graduate from care management.

 i. Support the provider's role in the care management process by entering client-specific data directly into the provider's information system or directly into the client's medical record, meeting with providers on a weekly or bi-weekly basis as necessary, and obtaining provider approval on the care plan to ensure it complements the providers treatment plan.

 j. Pay participating providers at least $2.50 per member per month to provide Medical Home activities for the client.

 k. Provide community outreach to engage additional providers to participate in the program. Providers must meet the following requirements:

 (1) Have a current CORE provider agreement with DSHS;

 (2) Maintain a patient registry;

 (3) Provide patient-focused service delivery using evidence-based medicine;

 (4) Utilize a team approach in coordination with other providers and organizations;

 (5) Provide evidence of participation in training on the chronic care model;

 (6) Provide outcomes data (e.g., lab results) by disease;

 (7) Agree to serve as a medical home for a determined number of SSI eligible Medicaid enrollees and see each enrollee a minimum of once per year.

 5. PROGRAM STAFFING AND REQUIREMENTS:

 a. The Contractor shall provide its staffing model to DSHS for approval by February 1, 2007, and provide updates when there are staffing changes. The care manager and care coordinator to client ratio will be incorporated into the model, and changes must be approved in advance by DSHS. The Contractor may employ multidisciplinary teams to provide services but the principal care manager must be an RN. The principal care management nurse will provide an interface between the provider, social worker and lay health worker to coordinate care for enrollees, and ensure care is delivered at the most appropriate level. The CCM staff will provide referral and advocacy to mental health, long term care and other community services.

 b. The Contractor shall maintain documentation of services provided by the CCM program for each enrollee. The Contractor will share information with the enrollee's medical providers and/or case managers as needed to ensure that the enrollee receives necessary services and periodically to maintain reasonable and relevant communication with enrollees' medical and social services providers.

 c. In addition, the Contractor must develop access to resources such as: such as master's level social workers, chemical dependency counselors, registered mental health professionals (MHPs), dieticians, or psychiatric nurse practitioners. Certain aspects of enrollment and assistance with referrals to transportation or other services may be performed by lay health workers.

 d. The principal RN Care Manager will provide an interface between the provider, social worker and lay health worker to coordinate care for enrollees, and ensure care is delivered at the most appropriate level. The CCM staff will provide referral and advocacy to mental health, long term care and other community services.

 e. The Contractor shall maintain sufficient data to identify the physicians who provide services to each enrollee. Additionally, the Contractor shall maintain data that identifies each participant's Care Manager.

 f. The Contractor shall provide verification of services via enrollee surveys and reports submitted to DSHS.

 g. The Contractor shall ensure that all Care Management nurses are properly licensed based on Washington State licensing requirements. Nurses employed by a Tribal 638 or Indian Health Service facility must be licensed in accordance with federal requirements. The Contractor shall ensure that DSHS has copies of all credentialing policies and procedures.

```
