

********

**Council Bill Number: 115915**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122419**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting deeds for street and/or alley purposes establishing, laying off, and widening portions of the following rights-of way: the alley in Block 12, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 12, Boren & Denny's Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 17, D. T. Denny's Waterfront Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 3, Fairview Homestead Association; 36th Avenue West in Government Lot 6 of Section 10, Township 25 north, Range 3 East, W.M.; the alley in Block 5, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 10, Bell & Denny's Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 1, Albert Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 39, West Green Lake Addition No. 2 to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 4, Replat of Blocks C & D, Hamblet's Acre Gardens; the easement for public sidewalk in Block 2, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 1, Phinney Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 5, University Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 6, Interlake Addition to the City of Seattle; and the alley in Block 12, Replat of John J. McGilvra's Third Addition to the City of Seattle; and placing the real property conveyed by such deeds under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation. (RW T2002-05, RW T2002-06, RW T2002-07, RW T2002-10, RW T2002-11, RW T2002-13, RW T2003-01, RW T2003-03, RW T2003-15, RW T2004-05, RW T2004-06, RW T2004-08 (deed and easement), RW T2004-09, RW T2004-13, RW T2004-19; RW T2004-29)

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 18, 2007
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 27, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 27, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Right-of-Way Acceptance Ordinance

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 11, 2007
   
**Committee:** TRANSPORTATION
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** RIGHT-OF-WAY, STREETS, ALLEYS, SIDEWALKS, DEEDS, EASEMENTS

**Fiscal Note:**115915

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122419](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122419.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE accepting deeds for street and/or alley purposes establishing, laying off, and widening portions of the following rights-of way: the alley in Block 12, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 12, Boren & Denny's Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 17, D. T. Denny's Waterfront Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 3, Fairview Homestead Association; 36th Avenue West in Government Lot 6 of Section 10, Township 25 north, Range 3 East, W.M.; the alley in Block 5, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 10, Bell & Denny's Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 1, Albert Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 39, West Green Lake Addition No. 2 to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 4, Replat of Blocks C & D, Hamblet's Acre Gardens; the easement for public sidewalk in Block 2, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 1, Phinney Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 5, University Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 6, Interlake Addition to the City of Seattle; and the alley in Block 12, Replat of John J. McGilvra's Third Addition to the City of Seattle; and placing the real property conveyed by such deeds under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 (RW T2002-05, RW T2002-06, RW T2002-07, RW T2002-10, RW T2002-11, RW T2002-13, RW T2003-01, RW T2003-03, RW T2003-15, RW T2004-05, RW T2004-06, RW T2004-08 (deed and easement), RW T2004-09, RW T2004-13, RW T2004-19; RW T2004-29)

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle Land Use Code (Chapter 23.53 of the Seattle Municipal Code) requires that street/alleys and sidewalks adjacent and leading to lots being created, developed, or redeveloped, be improved or brought up to minimum conditions specified in the Land Use Code and the Seattle Right-of-Way Improvements Manual; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Department of Transportation obtained, on behalf of the City, the necessary rights-of-way from specific property owners listed herein for and in fulfillment of said land use code requirement; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. That the deed for alley purposes dated May 31, 2002, by K & W DEVELOPMENT, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The West 1 foot of Lots 8 and 9, Block 12, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 10 of Plats, page 73, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 RW T2002-05; a portion of tax parcel number 674670-1885-09; King County Recording Number 20020606000029)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 2. That the alley in Block 12, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the north by NE 55th Street, on the south by NE 52nd Street, on the east by 11th Avenue NE, and on the west by Roosevelt Way NE, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 1 hereof.

 Section 3. That the deed for alley purposes dated June 13, 2002, by 52nd & ROOSEVELT ASSOCIATES, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The East 3 feet of the South 25 feet of Lot 46 and the East 3 feet of Lots 47 and 48, Block 12, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 10 of Plats, page 73, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2002-06; a portion of tax parcel number 674670-2120-02; King County Recording Number 20020614001563)

 Section 4. That the alley in Block 12, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the north by NE 55th Street, on the south by NE 52nd Street, on the east by 11th Avenue NE, and on the west by Roosevelt Way NE, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 3 hereof.

 Section 5. That the deed for alley purposes dated June 8, 2006, by 1000 FIRST AVENUE PROPERTIES, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The Northeasterly 2.00 feet of Lots 5 and 8, Block 12, Town of Seattle, as laid out on the claims of C. D. Boren and A. A. Denny (commonly known as Boren & Denny's Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 27, Records of King County, Washington;

 Except the Westerly 9.00 feet thereof, condemned in District Court Cause Number 7092 for the widening of First Avenue as provided by ordinance No. 1129 of the City of Seattle.

 The upper vertical limit of said dedication shall be an elevation of 85.80 feet;

 The lower vertical limit of said dedication shall be an inclines plane, having an elevation of 53.50 feet at the southeast corner of said Lot 8, an elevation of 55.75 feet, 12.00 feet north of said southeast corner, and an elevation of 57.35 feet at the northeast corner of said Lot 5; said inclined plane being 15 inches below the finish grade of the alley as it exists at the time of execution of this instrument;

 said elevations described herein are expressed in terms of North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) as the date of this instrument and are based upon City of Seattle benchmark No. 9204; "X" at top NW corner of northerly footing to overhead walkway at NW corner of 75 Marion Street and having an elevation of 18.22 feet.

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2002-07; a portion of tax parcel number 093900-0535-00; King County Recording Number 20060609001599)

 Section 6. That the alley in Block 12, Boren & Denny's Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the northeast by 2nd Avenue, on the southeast by Madison Street, on the northwest by Spring Street, and on the southwest by 1st Avenue, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 5 hereof.

 Section 7. That the deed for alley purposes dated October 2, 2002, by METRO ON FIRST, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, and METRO ON FIRST CO-TENANT, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The West 2 feet of Lots 4, 5 and 6, Block 17, D. T. Denny's Waterfront Addition to the

 City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 61, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2002-10; a portion of tax parcel number 198920-0865-03; King County Recording Number 20021009001179)

 Section 8. That the alley in Block 17, D. T. Denny's Waterfront Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the north by West Thomas Street, on the south by West John Street, on the east by 1st Avenue West, and on the west by 2nd Avenue West, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 7 hereof.

 Section 9. That the deed for alley purpose dated July 28, 2003, by ALCYONE LLC, a Washington Limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The West 2 feet of Lots 7 through 11, inclusive, Block 3, Fairview Homestead Association, for the Benefit of Mechanics and Laborers, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 119, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2002-11; a portion of tax parcel numbers 246740-0096, 246740- 0101, 246740-0105 and 246740-0110; King County Recording Number 20030813000580)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 10. That the alley in Block 3, Fairview Homestead Association, and said block being bounded on the north by Harrison Street, on the south by Thomas Street, on the east by Minor Avenue North, and on the west by Fairview Avenue North, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 9 hereof.

 Section 11. That the deed for street purposes dated May 14, 2004, by MAGNOLIA-SEATTLE, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 That portion of Lot A of City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment no. 9405417, as recorded in Recording No. 9503100360, Records of King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at a concrete monument at the intersection of the centerline of West Lawton Street with the West line of Government Lot 6 of Section 10, Township 25 North, Range 3 East, W.M. (said West line of Government Lot 6 also being the West line of said Lot A);

 thence South 00 degrees 13' 03" East along said West line, a distance of 54.59 feet to the North margin of the East 30 feet of 36th Avenue West as established in the plat of Lawton Lane, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 69 of Plats, page 21, Records of King County, Washington (the intersection of said West line of Government Lot 6 and said North margin also being the Southwest corner of said Lot A);

 thence, North 89 degrees 46" 57" East along said North margin, a distance of 30.00 feet to the East margin of 36th Avenue West as established in said plat of Lawton Lane;

 thence North 00 degrees 13" 03" West a distance of 90.00 feet;

 thence South 89 degrees 46' 57" East, a distance of 30.00 feet to said West line of Government Lot 6;

 thence South 00 degrees 13' 03" East along said West line, a distance of 35.41 feet to the Point of Beginning of this description;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2002-13; a portion of tax parcel number 1025039331; King County Recording Number 20041206001897)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 12. That 36th Avenue West in Government Lot 6 of Section 10, Township 25 north, Range 3 East, W.M. is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 11 hereof.

 Section 13. That the deed for alley purposes dated September 30, 2003, by JAMES HABERZETLE AND MARY HABERZETLE, husband and wife, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purpose the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The East 1 foot of Lot 28 and the East 1 foot of the North 20 feet of Lot 29, Block 5, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 10 of Plats, page 73, Records of King County, Washington;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2003-1; a portion of tax parcel number 674670-0575; King County Recording Number 20031002000869)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 14. That the alley in Block 5, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the north by NE 55th Street, on the south by NE 52nd Street, on the east by 12th Avenue NE, and on the west by 11th Avenue NE, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 13 hereof.

 Section 15. That the deed for alley purposes dated October 13, 2004, by FIRST AVENUE DEVELOPMENT LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 That portion of the Southwesterly 2.00 feet of Lots 5 and 6, Block 10, Portion of the Town of Seattle, as laid out on the Land Claim of Wm. H. Bell, and the North Western Extremity of the Claim of A. A. Denny (commonly known as Bell & Denny's Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 29, Records of King County, Washington, lying between elevations 72.0 feet and 90.65 feet, City of Seattle Datum;

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2003-03; a portion of tax parcel number 065300-0375-07; King County Recording Number 20041015001120)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 16. That the alley in Block 10, Bell & Denny's Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the northwest by Clay Street, on the southeast by Cedar Street, on the northeast by 1st Avenue, and on the southwest by Western Avenue, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 15 hereof.

 Section 17. That the deed for street purposes dated May 1, 2003 by RIDGEMONT LLC conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 That portion of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 6, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W. M. in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, described as follows:

 The south 4.00 feet of Lot 1, Block 4, Albert Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat recorded in Volume 19 of Plats, page 66, in King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT the east 10 feet thereof.

 (RW T2003-15, a portion of tax parcel numbers 009100-0005 and 009100- 0010; King County Recording Number 20030501002400)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 18. That the alley in Block 1, Albert Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the north by North 78th Street, on the east by Dayton Avenue North, and on the west by Greenwood Avenue North, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 17 hereof.

 Section 19. That the deed for alley purposes dated February 19, 2004 by SWANSON PROPERTIES, LLC, a limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The South 2 feet of Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4, Block 39, West Green Lake Addition No. 2 to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 15 of Plats, page 21, Records of King County, Washington,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2004-05; a portion of tax parcel number 926720-0040-07; King County Recording Number 20040309001869)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 20. That the alley in Block 39, West Green Lake Addition No. 2 to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the north by North 94th Street, on the south by North 93rd Street, on the east by Stone Avenue North, and on the west by Aurora Avenue North, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 19 hereof.

 Section 21. That the deed for alley purposes dated May 31, 2005, by CHRIS H. PICKERING, a married man, as his separate estate, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The East 1.00 Foot of Parcels B and C, of City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 2303966, as recorded under King County recording number 20040727900005, records of King County, Washington.

 (Being also known as the East 1.00 Foot of Lots 9 and 10, Block 4, Replat of Blocks C & D, Hamblet's Acre Gardens, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats, page 23, in King County, Washington.)

 (RW T2004-06, a portion of tax parcel number 305270-0620-06; King County Recording Number 20050531002128)

 Section 22. That the alley in Block 4, Replat of Blocks C & D, Hamblet's Acre Gardens, and said block being bounded on the north by NW 70th Street, on the south by NW 67th Street, on the east by 13th Avenue NW and on the west by 14th Avenue NW, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 21 hereof.

 Section 23. That the deed for alley purposes dated May 20, 2004, by 50TH & 12TH, LLC, an Indiana limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The east 5 feet 0 inches, Lots 16-20, Block 2, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat recorded in Volume 10 of Plats, page 73, Records of King County, Washington, Except the south 6 inches of said Lot 16,

 Also,

 The West 5 feet 0 inches, Lots 2 & 3, Block 10, Assessor's Plat of University Heights, as per plat recorded in Volume 16 of Plats, page 70, Records of King County, Washington.

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2004-08; a portion of tax parcel numbers 6746700140 & 8817400075; King County Recording Number 20040608002293)

 Section 24. That the alley in Block 2, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the north by NE 50th Street, on the south by NE 47th Street, on the east by Brooklyn Avenue NE, and on the west by 12th Avenue NE, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of the land described in Section 23 hereof.

 Section 25. That the easement for public sidewalk purposes dated May 20, 2004, by 50th & 12th, LLC, conveying to the City of Seattle an easement for sidewalk purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The north 3' of Lot 20, Block 2 of Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 10 of Plats, page 73, Records of King County, Washington:

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2004-08; a portion of tax parcel number 674670 0140; King County Recording Number 200400608002294)

 Section 26. That the sidewalk adjoining ports of Lot 20, Block 2, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, on the south side of NE 50th Street between 12th Avenue NE and Brooklyn Avenue NE is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 25 hereof.

 Section 27. That the deed for alley purposes dated August 9, 2004, by EDWARD C. DVORAK, a single man, conveying to The City of Settle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The Easterly 1 foot of Lot 5, Block 1, Phinney Ave. Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 20 of Plats, page 85, Records of King County, Washington.

 (RW T2004-09; a portion of tax parcel number 6758700025; King County Recording Number 20040826001216)

 is hereby accepted, and the real property conveyed by such deed is placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 28. That the alley in Block 1, Phinney Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the south by N 65th Street, on the east by Francis Avenue N, and on the west by Phinney Avenue N, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 27 hereof.

 Section 29. That the deed for alley purposes dated October 1, 2004, by JEFFREY R. WILSON, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The East 1 foot of Lot 30 and the East 1 foot of the South 10 feet of Lot 29, Block 5, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 10 of Plats, page 73, Records of King County, Washington,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2004-13; a portion of tax parcel number 674670 0580; King County Recording Number 20041215002538)

 Section 30. That the alley in Block 5, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the north by NE 55th Street, on the south by NE 52nd Street, on the east by 12th Avenue NE, and on the west by 11th Avenue NE, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 29 hereof.

 Section 31. That the deed for alley purposes dated October 13, 2004, by ROOSEVELT & 65TH, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The East 1.00 foot of the south half of Lot 16 and the East 1.00 foot of Lot 17, Block 6, Interlake Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 12 of Plats, page 58, Records of King County, Washington,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2004-19; a portion of tax parcel number 3589500320; King County Recording Number 20041215002539)

 Section 32. That the alley in Block 6, Interlake Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the south by NE 56th Street, on the east by 11th Avenue NE, and on the west by Roosevelt Way NE, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon he portion of land described in Section 31 hereof.

 Section 33. That the deed for alley purposes dated January 6, 2005, by SUREYYA DIKMEN, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The West 8.00 feet of the North 10 feet of Lot 19 and the West 8.00 feet of Lot 20, Block 12, Replat of John J. McGilvra's Third Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 6 of Plats, page 34, Records of King County, Washington, except the West 7 feet thereof conveyed to the City of Seattle for alley purposes by deed recorded under Auditor's File no. 1460913

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2004-29; a portion of tax parcel number 5318101425; King County Recording Number 20050107001867)

 Section 34. That the alley in Block 12, Replat of John J. McGilvra's Third Addition to the City of Seattle, and said block being bounded on the north by East Blaine Street, on the south by East Garfield Street, on the east by 43rd Avenue East, and on the west by 42nd Avenue East, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in Section 33 hereof.

 Section 35. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Jody Sisson/JS

 SDOT ROW Acceptance ORD

 March 26, 2007

 Version #1a

 Form Last Revised on December 16, 2006 1

```
