

********

**Council Bill Number: 115977**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122471**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the release of a restrictive covenant and easement imposed upon property located at 800 Pike Street, Seattle, Washington by the Museum of History and Industry ("MOHAI") in favor of the City of Seattle; and authorizing the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation to release the covenant and easement.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 13, 2007
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 22, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 22, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 6, 2007
   
**Committee:** Full Council
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, MUSEUMS, CONVENTION-CENTER, CONTRACTS, EASEMENTS

**Fiscal Note:**115977

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122471](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122471.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the release of a restrictive covenant and easement imposed upon property located at 800 Pike Street, Seattle, Washington by the Museum of History and Industry ("MOHAI") in favor of the City of Seattle; and authorizing the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation to release the covenant and easement.

 WHEREAS, in 2003, the Historical Society of Seattle and King County, doing business as the Museum of History and Industry ("MOHAI"), purchased certain property (the "CTC Property") within the expanded Washington State Convention and Trade Center (the "WSCTC") in downtown Seattle for purposes of constructing and operating a public historical museum; and

 WHEREAS, the City secured performance of MOHAI's commitment to develop and operate a public historical museum at its CTC Property under a series of agreements between the City and MOHAI pursuant to which the City acquired a restrictive covenant on use of the CTC Property and an easement for the use of, and access to, the CTC Property, both for public museum purposes; and

 WHEREAS, MOHAI has since determined that the CTC Property is not a particularly appropriate location for a project of the scope and with the program it now perceives to be ideal for its new public heritage center formerly known as a historical museum; and

 WHEREAS, with the construction of the City's new Lake Union Park and the redevelopment of the South Lake Union neighborhood, the Department of Parks and Recreation and MOHAI engaged in discussions concerning the feasibility of establishing a new public heritage center at the City-owned, former Naval Reserve Armory within Lake Union Park ("Armory") and are actively evaluating the viability of proceeding with such development; and

 WHEREAS, independent of MOHAI's decision to pursue options for the location of a new public heritage center other than on its CTC Property, the WSCTC has itself determined that it wishes to reacquire the property it sold to MOHAI in 2003 for further expansion of the WSCTC; and

 WHEREAS, MOHAI and the WSCTC have reached an agreement in principle on the terms for the sale of the MOHAI CTC Property to the WSCTC, which agreement is conditioned on MOHAI agreeing that $5,750,000 of its proceeds from the sale of its CTC Property to the WSCTC be retained by MOHAI in an account to be used only for capital costs associated with the development of a heritage center to be located elsewhere in the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, MOHAI will not be able to complete the sale of its CTC Property unless the City releases its security interest in the CTC Property; and

 WHEREAS, the City wishes to join the State in supporting MOHAI in its effort to develop its new heritage center at a location within the city other than at the CTC Property, and understands MOHAI's need to sell its CTC Property in order to do so; and

 WHEREAS, MOHAI has committed to begin construction of a new heritage center by June 30, 2017, which time frame MOHAI requested so that it may locate and develop an alternative site within the city in the event that either MOHAI or the City determines that it is not feasible to develop a new heritage center at the Armory; and

 WHEREAS, the City is prepared to release its restrictions and security interest in the MOHAI CTC Property provided that MOHAI agrees that $1,000,000 of its proceeds from the sale of its CTC Property to the WSCTC, plus accrued interest, be retained by MOHAI in an account to be used only for capital costs associated with the development of a heritage center to be located elsewhere within the City, and provided further, that if construction of a heritage center has not commenced by June 30, 2017, the funds, including accrued earnings in the meantime, will be transferred to the City;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation (the "Superintendent"), and recommended by the Mayor, the Superintendent or his or her designee is authorized to execute the Agreement for Release of Covenant and Easement (the "Agreement"), substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment A. The Superintendent or his or her designee is authorized to execute all related and necessary documents, including the Termination and Release of Covenant and Easement and the Request for Full Reconveyance of the Deed of Trust, substantially in the forms attached to the Agreement. The Superintendent or his or her designee also is authorized to execute such other instruments and documents as he or she deems necessary to effectuate the sale of MOHAI's Convention and Trade Center Property to the Washington State Convention and Trade Center as contemplated by this ordinance.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007. ________________________________________ President __________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. ________________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. ________________________________________ City Clerk Attachment: Attachment A - Agreement for Release of Covenant and Easement

 Release of MOHAI 800 Pike Street Covenant Ordinance August 2, 2007 version #3

 ATTACHMENT A: AGREEMENT FOR RELEASE OF COVENANT AND EASEMENT

 This AGREEMENT FOR RELEASE OF COVENANT AND EASEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into this ___ day of __________, 2007 (the "Effective Date") by and among The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("City") and the Historical Society of Seattle and King County, a Washington nonprofit corporation doing business as the Museum of History and Industry ("MOHAI").

 RECITALS

 1. In 2003, MOHAI purchased certain real property legally described in Exhibit A attached hereto, which real property is commonly known as the Museum Unit of the Northeast Block Condominium, located at 800 Pike Street, Seattle, Washington within the expanded Washington State Convention (the "Museum Unit") for purposes of constructing and operating a public historical museum.

 2. For several years the City has recognized the substantial public benefits that would result from the development of a historical museum within the Museum Unit and has supported MOHAI's efforts in a variety of ways, including acquiring a restrictive covenant on use of the Museum Unit and an easement for the use of and access to the Museum Unit, both for public museum purposes.

 3. Most recently, MOHAI, as grantor, and the City, as grantee, entered into that certain Second Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property ("Covenant and Easement"), dated February 25, 2004 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20040301002217, which Covenant and Easement amended, restated and replaced in its entirety the (a) Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property entered into by and between Washington State Convention and Trade Center, a public corporation of the State of Washington ("WSCTC"), and the City dated December 3, 2001 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20011203002784, and (b) the Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property by and between the WSCTC and the City dated December 23, 2003 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20031223001261.

 4. As security for its obligations under the Covenant and Easement, MOHAI, as grantor, executed a deed of trust dated December 23, 2003 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20031223001269 under which the City is the beneficiary, which deed of trust was amended by that certain First Amendment to Deed of Trust dated February 25, 2004 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20040301002218 (as so amended, the "Deed of Trust").

 5. MOHAI has since determined that the Museum Unit is not a particularly appropriate location for a project of the scope and with the program it now perceives to be ideal for its new public heritage center, formerly know as a historical museum.

 6. With the construction of the City's new Lake Union Park and the redevelopment of the South Lake Union neighborhood, the City Department of Parks and Recreation and MOHAI engaged in discussions concerning the feasibility of establishing a new public heritage center at the City-owned, former Naval Reserve Armory ("Armory") within Lake Union Park and are actively evaluating the viability of proceeding with such development.

 7. Independent of MOHAI's decision to pursue options for the location of a new public heritage center other than within the Museum Unit, WSCTC has itself determined that it wishes to reacquire the property it sold to MOHAI in 2003 for further expansion of the WSCTC.

 8. MOHAI has entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated ________ __, 2007 (the "Purchase and Sale Agreement") with WSCTC, whereby MOHAI will sell and WSCTC will purchase the Museum Unit on or before December 27, 2007. The date on which the deed from MOHAI to WSCTC is recorded is called the "Closing Date."

 9. MOHAI will not be able to complete the sale of the Museum Unit unless the City consents to the same and releases MOHAI from its obligations under the Covenant and Easement and the Deed of Trust.

 10. The City continues to recognize that a public heritage center has substantial educational and cultural value to Seattle residents by promoting a greater understanding of the history, industry and cultures of the Pacific Northwest region, and wishes to continue to support MOHAI in its effort to develop its new heritage center at a location within the City other than the Museum Unit and understands MOHAI's need to sell the Museum Unit in order to do so.

 11. MOHAI has committed to begin construction of a new heritage center by June 30, 2017, which time frame MOHAI requested so that it may locate and develop an alternative site within the city in the event that either MOHAI or the City determines that it is not feasible to develop a new heritage center at the Armory.

 12. The City is prepared to release its restrictions and security interest in the Museum Unit provided that MOHAI agrees that $1,000,000 of its proceeds from the sale of the Museum Unit to WSCTC (equivalent to the amount of the City's current financial contribution toward the development of a public historical museum at the Museum Unit) plus accrued interest on that amount for the period from December 3, 2001, through the Closing Date be retained by MOHAI in an account to be used only for capital costs associated with the development of a new heritage center to be located elsewhere within the City. In the event construction of a new heritage center has not commenced by June 30, 2017, the funds deposited on the Closing Date, together with accrued interest from the Closing Date until the date of reimbursement, will be transferred to the City. If MOHAI develops a new heritage center at a location not owned by the City, MOHAI will provide the City with public benefits commensurate with those contained in the subject Covenant and Easement.

 AGREEMENT

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above-recited benefits to the City and MOHAI, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, and other good and valuable consideration, the City and MOHAI agree as follows:

 1. Creation of Account.

 (a) On the Closing Date, as required by City of Seattle Ordinance No. ________________, MOHAI will deposit in an investment account (the "Account") One Million and 00/100 Dollars ($1,000,000) plus accrued interest on that amount for the period from December 3, 2001, through the Closing Date at the rate applied from time to time to participating funds in the City's Consolidated Cash Portfolio, from the net proceeds realized from the sale of the Museum Unit. The use of such funds shall be restricted solely for capital costs associated with the development of MOHAI's principal heritage center to be located in the City. Principal and accrued earnings in the Account shall be available for expenditure by MOHAI when MOHAI or the City has executed a construction contract for either a new facility or improvements to an existing structure to serve as the principal heritage center to be operated by MOHAI within the City. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the new heritage center is located in or on property that the City does not own, then such funds shall not be released until such time as MOHAI and the City have agreed upon a set of public benefits commensurate with those that MOHAI has agreed to provide under the Covenant and Easement.

 (b) If MOHAI or the City has not executed a construction contract for either a new facility or improvements to an existing structure to serve as the principal heritage center to be operated by MOHAI in the City by June 30, 2017, MOHAI shall transfer the entire amount deposited in the Account on the Closing Date to the City's cumulative reserve subfund unrestricted subaccount and, in addition, MOHAI shall pay the City from funds available in the Account or otherwise, accrued interest at the rate described in paragraph 1(a) on said amount from the Closing Date through June 30, 2017, which shall represent a recovery of the City's contributions made under the Covenant and Easement towards the development of the heritage center.

 2. Termination. Effective as of the Closing Date, the Covenant and Easement shall terminate and shall thereafter be of no further force and effect. MOHAI and the City agree to execute and record on the Closing Date the Termination and Release of Covenant and Easement in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.

 3. Release. The City hereby agrees, on the Closing Date, to release MOHAI from all obligations under the Covenant and Easement. This full release shall be effective upon the Closing Date, notwithstanding any inconsistent provisions of the Covenant and Easement.

 4. Consent. The City hereby consents to the sale of the Museum Unit to WSCTC in accordance with the terms of the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

 5. Reconveyance of Deed of Trust. The City agrees, on the Closing Date, to execute and deliver to the trustee under the Deed of Trust a Request for Full Reconveyance of the Deed of Trust in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C.

 6. No Default. MOHAI and the City represent and warrant to each other that as of the Effective Date, there is no existing Event of Default under the Covenant and Easement and that they know of no event or occurrence which, with the passage of time or giving of notice, would constitute an Event of Default under the Covenant and Easement.

 7. Authority. Each signatory of this Agreement represents hereby that he or she has the authority to execute and deliver the same on behalf of the party hereto for which such signatory is acting.

 8. Notices. Any notices required or permitted hereunder shall be effective when hand-delivered during normal business hours or two (2) business days after mailed, postage prepaid, to a party at the address set forth below for such party, or such other address as such party may provide by written notice in accordance with this Covenant and Easement.

 Grantor: Historical Society of Seattle & King County 2700 24th Avenue East Seattle, Washington 98112 Attn: Leonard Garfield, Executive Director

 with a copy to: Kirkpatrick & Lockhart Preston Gates Ellis LLP 925 Fourth Avenue, Suite 2900 Seattle, Washington 98104-1158 Attn: Shannon J. Skinner

 Grantee: The City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 100 Dexter Avenue North Seattle, Washington 98109 Attn: _____________________

 9. Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall survive the Closing Date, and shall be binding on and shall insure to the benefit of MOHAI, the City and their respective successors and assigns.

 10. Entire Agreement; Modification. This Agreement embodies the entire agreement between MOHAI and the City with respect to its subject matter, and it supersedes any prior agreements, whether written or oral, with respect to its subject matter. This Agreement may be changed only by written instrument signed by both MOHAI and the City.

 11. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute but one and the same instrument.

 12. Governing Law; Interpretation. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington and shall be construed by a fair and reasonable interpretation of the words used in it without regard to which party drafted or caused to be drafted the provision or provisions.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

 City: MOHAI:

 The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington

 By

 Name _________________________

 Superintendent, Department of Parks and Recreation Historical Society of Seattle and King County, a Washington nonprofit corporation

 By Leonard Garfield Executive Director

 EXHIBIT A: LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

 The Museum Unit of the Northeast Block Condominium, a condominium recorded in Volume 195 of condominiums, Page 30, according to the Declaration for the Northeast Block Condominium, recorded under King County Recording No. 20031222001820, situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 EXHIBIT B: FORM OF TERMINATION AND RELEASE OF COVENANT AND EASEMENT

 FILED FOR RECORDING AT REQUEST OF AND WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO: Kirkpatrick & Lockhart Preston Gates Ellis LLP 925 Fourth Avenue, Suite 2900 Seattle, Washington 98104-1158 Attn: Shannon J. Skinner

 Document title: Termination and Release of Covenant and Easement

 Grantor: The City of Seattle

 Grantee: Historical Society of Seattle and King County

 Legal Description: The Museum Unit of the Northeast Block Condominium, a condominium recorded in Volume 195 of condominiums, Page 30, according to the Declaration for the Northeast Block Condominium, recorded under King County Recording No. 20031222001820, situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Tax Parcel Account Number: Ptn of 0660000875, 0660000885 and 0660000930

 Reference Nos. of related documents: 20011203002784, 20031223001261 and 20040301002217.

 TERMINATION AND RELEASE OF COVENANT AND EASEMENT

 This TERMINATION AND RELEASE OF COVENANT AND EASEMENT (the "Release") is made and entered into this ___ day of __________, 2007 by and among The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("City" or "Grantor") and the Historical Society of Seattle and King County, a Washington nonprofit corporation doing business as the Museum of History and Industry ("MOHAI" or "Grantee").

 RECITALS

 1. In 2003, MOHAI purchased certain real property legally described in Attachment 1 attached hereto, which real property is commonly known as the Museum Unit of the Northeast Block Condominium, located at 800 Pike Street, Seattle, Washington within the expanded Washington State Convention (the "Museum Unit"), for purposes of constructing and operating a public historical museum.

 2. For several years the City has recognized the substantial public benefits that would result from the development of a historical museum within the Museum Unit and has supported MOHAI's efforts in a variety of ways, including acquiring a restrictive covenant on use of the Museum Unit and an easement for the use of and access to the Museum Unit, both for public museum purposes.

 3. Most recently, MOHAI, as grantor, and the City, as grantee, entered into that certain Second Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property ("Covenant and Easement"), dated February 25, 2004 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20040301002217, which Covenant and Easement amended, restated and replaced in its entirety the (a) Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property entered into by and between Washington State Convention and Trade Center, a public corporation of the State of Washington ("WSCTC"), and the City dated December 3, 2001 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20011203002784, and (b) the Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property by and between the WSCTC and the City dated December 23, 2003 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20031223001261.

 4. As security for its obligations under the Covenant and Easement, MOHAI, as grantor, executed a deed of trust dated December 23, 2003 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20031223001269 under which the City is the beneficiary, which deed of trust was amended by that certain First Amendment to Deed of Trust dated February 25, 2004 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20040301002218 (as so amended, the "Deed of Trust").

 5. MOHAI has since determined that the Museum Unit is not a particularly appropriate location for a project of the scope and with the program it now perceives to be ideal for its new public heritage center, formerly known as a historical museum.

 6. With the construction of the City's new Lake Union Park and the redevelopment of the South Lake Union neighborhood, the City Department of Parks and Recreation and MOHAI engaged in discussions concerning the feasibility of establishing a new public heritage center at the City-owned, former Naval Reserve Armory ("Armory") within Lake Union Park and are actively evaluating the viability of proceeding with the development of a public heritage center in the Armory building.

 7. Independent of MOHAI's decision to pursue options for the location of a new public heritage center other than within the Museum Unit, WSCTC has itself determined that it wishes to reacquire the property it sold to MOHAI in 2003 for further expansion of the WSCTC.

 8. MOHAI has entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated ________ __, 2007 (the "Purchase and Sale Agreement") with WSCTC, whereby MOHAI will sell and WSCTC will purchase the Museum Unit on or before December 27, 2007. The date on which the deed from MOHAI to WSCTC is recorded is called the "Closing Date."

 9. MOHAI will not be able to complete the sale of the Museum Unit unless the City consents to the same and releases MOHAI from its obligations under the Covenant and Easement and the Deed of Trust.

 10. The City continues to recognize that the heritage center has substantial educational and cultural value to Seattle residents by promoting a greater understanding of the history, industry and cultures of the Pacific Northwest region, and wishes to continue to support MOHAI in its effort to develop its new heritage center at a location within the City other than the Museum Unit and understands MOHAI's need to sell the Museum Unit in order to do so.

 11. MOHAI has committed to begin construction of a new heritage center by June 30, 2017, which time frame MOHAI requested so that it may locate and develop an alternative site within the city in the event that either MOHAI or the City determines that it is not feasible to develop a new heritage center at the Armory; and

 12. Concurrently with execution of this Release, MOHAI and the City are entering into a separate Agreement for Release of Covenant and Easement, whereby, among other things, MOHAI agrees that $1,000,000 of its proceeds from the sale of the Museum Unit to WSCTC (equivalent to the amount of the City's current financial contribution toward the development of a public historical museum at the Museum Unit) plus accrued interest be retained by MOHAI in an account to be used only for capital costs associated with the development of a new heritage center to be located elsewhere within the City.

 12. This Release is being entered into to allow for the proposed sale of the Museum Unit to WSCTC and to support MOHAI's effort to develop its new heritage center at another location within the City.

 AGREEMENT

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above-recited benefits to the City and MOHAI, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, and other good and valuable consideration, the City and MOHAI agree as follows:

 1. Termination. The Covenant and Easement, including all of the rights, privileges, conveyances and burdens thereunder, is hereby terminated and shall hereafter be of no further force and effect.

 2. Release. MOHAI is hereby released from all obligations under the Covenant and Easement.

 3. Authority. Each signatory of this Release represents hereby that he or she has the authority to execute and deliver the same on behalf of the party hereto for which such signatory is acting.

 4. Successors and Assigns. This Release shall survive the Closing Date, and shall be binding on and shall insure to the benefit of MOHAI, the City and their respective successors and assigns.

 5. Counterparts. This Release may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute but one and the same instrument.

 6. Governing Law; Interpretation. This Release shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington and shall be construed by a fair and reasonable interpretation of the words used in it without regard to which party drafted or caused to be drafted the provision or provisions.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Release as of the day and year first above written.

 City/Grantor: MOHAI/Grantee:

 The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington By Name _________________________ Superintendent, Department of Parks and Recreation

 Historical Society of Seattle and King County, a Washington nonprofit corporation By Leonard Garfield Executive Director

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss. COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______ day of ____________, 2007, before me personally appeared ______________________, to me known to be the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day first above written.

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 Print Name: My commission expires .

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss. COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______ day of ____________, 2007, before me personally appeared Leonard Garfield to me known to be the Executive Director of HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF SEATTLE AND KING COUNTY, a Washington nonprofit corporation, the nonprofit corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said public corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day first above written.

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington residing at . Print Name: My commission expires .

 ATTACHMENT 1: LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

 The Museum Unit of the Northeast Block Condominium, a condominium recorded in Volume 195 of condominiums, Page 30, according to the Declaration for the Northeast Block Condominium, recorded under King County Recording No. 20031222001820, situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 EXHIBIT C: FORM OF REQUEST FOR FULL RECONVEYANCE

 To: Transnation Title Insurance Company, Trustee

 The undersigned is the legal owner and holder of all indebtedness and other obligations secured by that certain Deed of Trust in which the Historical Society of Seattle and King County, a Washington nonprofit corporation, is the grantor and you are the trustee, recorded under King County Recording No. 20031223001269, records of King County, Washington, as amended by that First Amendment to Deed of Trust dated February 25, 2004 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20040301002218.

 YOU ARE HEREBY DIRECTED, on payment to you of any sums owing to you under the terms of said Deed of Trust pursuant to statute, to reconvey, without warranty, to the party or parties entitled thereto by the terms of said Deed of Trust, the estate now held by you under the same.

 All obligations secured by said Deed of Trust have been fully satisfied and released.

 Dated: ________________, 2007.

 Beneficiary:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington By Name Its

 8/02/2007

```
