

********

**Council Bill Number: 115960**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122516**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the solid waste system of Seattle Public Utilities; revising rates and charges for solid waste services; revising credits to low income customers for solid waste services; and amending Chapters 21.40, 21.44, and 21.76 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 1, 2007
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 11, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 11, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 6, 2007
   
**Committee:** Environment, Emergency Management and Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** UTILITY-RATES, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, SOLID-WASTE, SOLID-WASTE-DISPOSAL

**Fiscal Note:**115960

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122516](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122516.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the solid waste system of Seattle Public Utilities; revising rates and charges for solid waste services; revising credits to low income customers for solid waste services; and amending Chapters 21.40, 21.44, and 21.76 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 WHEREAS, the City last modified solid waste rates and charges January 1, 2007; and

 WHEREAS, the Mayor and the City Council adopted Resolution 30990, establishing a goal of 60% recycling by 2012; and

 WHEREAS, Resolution 30990 also establishes zero waste principles to be applied to waste reduction strategies and outlines actions to be taken to upgrade City facilities to achieve waste-reduction goals and efficiently manage solid waste; and

 WHEREAS, capital requirements and operating costs are expected to increase as a result of the facility upgrades and new waste reduction programs, and result in an increase in the revenue requirements of the Solid Waste Fund; and

 WHEREAS, the solid waste rates authorized by this ordinance are consistent with the general ratemaking policies set forth in Resolution 30695 and are intended to generate sufficient revenue to meet the expected increase in revenue requirements; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 21.40.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.40.050 Residential can rates and charges.

 A. There is imposed upon all residences and other dwelling units within the City a charge for garbage and rubbish collection and disposal service in accordance with the following schedule, and the amounts stated below shall be charged for optional services:

 1. All residences with curbside/alley garbage container pickup: a charge per month or portion thereof, for each dwelling unit for once-a-week service, billed directly to the owner or occupant thereof as follows:

~~Effective Through~~ Effective Through Effective January 1, 2008~~December 31, 2006~~~~January 1, 2007~~December 31, 2007

 Service Units ~~Rates per Service Unit~~ Rates per Service Unit Rates per Service Unit

 Micro-can ~~$10.20~~ $10.35 $11.05

 Mini-can ~~$12.55~~ $12.70 $13.55

 Garbage can ~~$16.35~~ $16.55 $17.65

 60 to 65 gallon ~~$32.70~~ $33.10 cart $35.30

 90 to 96 gallon ~~$49.05~~ $49.65 $53.00  cart

 2. All residences with backyard garbage container pickup: a charge per month or portion thereof, for each dwelling unit for once-a-week service, billed directly to the owner or occupant as follows:

~~Effective Through~~ Effective Through Effective January 1, 2008~~December31, 2006~~~~January 1, 2007~~December 31, 2007

 Service Units ~~Rates per Service Unit~~ Rates per Service Unit Rates per Service Unit

 Garbage can ~~$22.90~~ $23.15 $24.70

 60 to 65 gallon ~~$45.80~~ $46.30 $49.40  cart

 90 to 96 gallon ~~$68.70~~ $69.45 $74.10  cart

 3. Minimum Charge, No Pickup Service. Effective through ~~December 31, 2006~~December 31, 2007, a charge per month or portion thereof, for each dwelling unit, including single-family dwellings not being used as residences, billed directly to the owner or occupant of ~~Six Dollars and Thirty-Five Cents ($6.35)~~Six Dollars and Forty Cents ($6.40) to cover landfill closure costs, billing, collection, Low Income Rate Assistance, and hazardous waste costs. Effective ~~January 1, 2007~~January 1, 2008, a charge per month or portion thereof, for each dwelling unit, including single-family dwellings not being used as residences, billed directly to the owner or occupant of ~~Six Dollars and Forty Cents ($6.40)~~Six Dollars and Eighty-five Cents ($6.85) to cover landfill closure costs, billing, collection, Low Income Rate Assistance, and hazardous waste costs. To be eligible for the minimum charge (zero (0) container rate) a customer may not generate any garbage or rubbish for collection or disposal. With occupied premises, the customer must demonstrate a consistent and effective practice of selective purchasing to minimize refuse, of recycling materials whenever practical, and of composting any yardwastes generated on the premises and the customer must have qualified for the rate on or before December 31, 1988. A customer is not eligible for the zero (0) container rate by hauling his or her garbage and rubbish to a transfer station, disposal site, or by disposal in another customer's containers or by the use of prepaid stickers. Vacant multifamily units do not qualify for the minimum charge.

 4. Extra Bundles. Effective through December 31, 2007,~~A~~a charge of Five Dollars and Sixty Cents ($5.60) for a bundle. Effective January 1, 2008 a charge of Six Dollars ($6.00) for a bundle. A customer may place an extra bundle with its container for regular pickup. The charge will be billed directly to the owner or occupant, unless a prepaid sticker is used. A prepaid sticker authorizes pickup of the bundle when placed with the customer's container. The sticker must be affixed to the bundle in order for the bundle to be picked up by the collector, and the customer not to be billed.

 5. Bulky and White Goods Pickup. Effective through ~~December 31, 2006~~December 31, 2007, a charge of Twenty Dollars ($20.00 for each item plus an additional charge of

~~Five~~Six Dollars ~~($5)~~($6.00) per item for items containing hazardous waste such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). Effective ~~January 1, 2007~~January 1, 2008, a charge of Twenty-five Dollars ~~($20)~~($25.00) for each item plus an additional charge of Six Dollars ($6.00 per item for items containing hazardous waste such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs).

 6. Curbside/Alley Yardwaste. Effective through ~~December 31, 2006~~December 31, 2007, a charge per month or portion thereof for each residence, billed directly to the owner or occupant, of ~~Four Dollars and Thirty Cents ($4.30)~~Five Dollars ($5.00) for up to four (4) bundles-of-yardwaste per collection plus an additional charge of One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50) for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four (4) per collection. Effective ~~January 1, 2007~~January 1, 2008, a charge per month or portion thereof for each residence, billed directly to the owner or occupant, of ~~Five Dollars ($5)~~Five Dollars and Thirty-five Cents ($5.35) for up to four (4) bundles-of- yardwaste per collection plus an additional charge of ~~One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50)~~One Dollar and Sixty Cents ($1.60) for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four (4) per collection. To receive this service, a customer must be signed up with the Seattle Public Utilities for a minimum of twelve (12) months' service and place his or her yardwaste at the curbside/alley for collection on the scheduled date.

 7. New/Changed Account. A charge of Ten Dollars ($10.00 for the establishment of a new account or for each change in an existing account. This charge shall apply when the owner or property manager of any single-family residence or multifamily structure (duplex, triplex, fourplex, or structure with five (5) or more units) establishes a new account or requests any change in his/her account requiring a change in account number or customer number. The new/changed account charge is not applicable to customers qualified for Low Income Rate Assistance.

 8. Physical Disability Exemption. An exemption will be provided to qualified residents to allow for backyard collection at curbside rates when the resident is physically unable to take his or her garbage and rubbish containers to the curb. Qualifying criteria shall include, but are not limited to, the resident's physical condition, qualification for backyard service in other City programs, a physician's recommendation, the presence of other physically capable persons in the household, special topography and other unique property conditions, taking into account the contractors' ability to provide different combinations of container sizes to make curbside pickup feasible.

 B. The City shall calculate the charge for each dwelling unit within apartment houses and apartment hotels and for each resident within boarding, rooming, fraternity, sorority and group student houses for two (2) times a week service, billed directly to the owner or agent for the entire building, by doubling the applicable garbage container rates in subsection A1 of this section and reducing this calculated amount by Three Dollars and Sixty-five Cents ($3.65) per unit to adjust for billing, collection, hazardous waste, and litter cleanup costs that occur only once a month.

 C. All Residential Customers Requesting and Receiving

 Nondetachable Container Special, Nonroutine Collection Service for Garbage, Yardwaste, or Recyclable Materials. The following charges shall apply to special collections of all nondetachable containers, bundles or bundles-of-yardwaste: Effective through December 31, 2007, a per-pickup charge of Twenty-four Dollars ($24) for first unit collected plus Two Dollars and Fifty Cents ($2.50) for each additional unit. Effective January 1, 2008, a per-pickup charge of Twenty-six Dollars ($26.00) for first unit collected plus Two Dollars and Sixty-five Cents ($2.65) for each additional unit.

D. The charges imposed by subsections A1 through A3 of this section inclusive shall not apply to dwelling units which elect to use detachable containers supplied either by the City's contractor or by the customer for the storage of garbage and rubbish. Application for detachable container service for a minimum period of six (6) months shall be made to the Director of Seattle Public Utilities on forms supplied by him/her, and collection of garbage and rubbish from

 such premises shall be made at such frequency as is necessary as determined by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, but in no event less than once each week. The monthly charges for detachable container service for the container and frequency selected shall be in accordance with the rates set forth in Section 21.40.060.

 E. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities may adjust the service level to a single-family residence to match the garbage and rubbish actually collected from the premises, or, for multifamily structures, to match the amount of garbage and rubbish reasonably anticipated from the dwelling units on the premises.

 Section 2. Section 21.40.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.40.060 Residential detachable container rates and charges.

 A. Uncompacted Rates. There is imposed upon residential premises that use detachable containers without mechanical compactors a monthly charge for garbage and rubbish collection and disposal service in accordance with the following applicable formula:

~~1.Effective through December 31, 2006, ($8.88 + $17.63f + $27. 52fn + $43.17fns +$0.60d)~~

1.~~2. Effective January 1, 2007~~Effective Through December 31, 2007: ($9.65 + $19.05f + $29.75fn + $46. 65fns +$0.60d)

2. Effective January 1, 2008: ($10.30+ $20.35f + $31.75fn + $49.80fns +$0.65d) where:

 n = number of containers served; f = number of pickups per week; s = size of container in cubic yards; and d = number of dwelling units.

 B. Compacted Rates. There is imposed upon residential premises that use detachable containers with compactors a monthly charge for garbage and rubbish collection and disposal service in accordance with the following formula:

~~1. Effective through December 31, 2006, ($8.88 + $17.63f + $27.52fn + $105.32fns + $0.60d)~~

1.~~2. Effective January 1, 2007~~Effective Through December 31, 2007: ($9.65 + $19.05f + $29.75fn + $113. 83fns +$0.60d)

2. Effective January 1, 2008: ($10.30 + $20.35f + $31.75fn + $121.45fns +$0.65d) where:

 n = number of containers served; f = number of pickups per week; and s = size of container in cubic yards; and d = number of dwelling units.

 C. Mixed-use Building. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities will determine the appropriate residential collection service level for a mixed-use building according to the estimated amount of residential garbage or refuse generated and to be collected by the City.

 D. Charges for Lockable Containers. Customers using detachable containers (compacted or noncompacted) may have a lock installed by the collection contractors. Effective through December 31, 2007, a~~A~~ fee of Fifty-three Dollars and Forty Cents ($53.40) will be assessed for installation of the lock. Additional keys are Three Dollars and Sixty Cents ($3.60) and an extra padlock is Eight Dollars and Thirty Cents ($8.30 ). Effective January 1, 2008, a fee of Fifty-seven Dollars ($57.00) will be assessed for installation of the lock. Additional keys are Three Dollars and Eighty-five Cents ($3.85) and an extra padlock is Eight Dollars and Eighty-five Cents ($8.85). Only customers who own their own containers may install their own locks.

E. All Residential Customers Receiving Detachable Container Special, Nonroutine Collection Service for Garbage, Yardwaste, or Recycling Materials. The following charges shall apply to special collections of all detachable containers or bundles of garbage, yardwaste or recycling materials:

~~Effective Through December 31, 2006~~Detachable Container Uncompacted Service Compacted Service Size

 3/4 cubic yards - First container $35.95 $46.55 - Each Additional $10.60 $21.20

 1 cubic yards - First container $38.40 $52.55 - Each Additional $13.05 $27.15

 1.5 cubic yards - First container $43.85 $65.05 - Each Additional $18.45 $39.65

 2 cubic yards - First container $56.30 $84.55 - Each Additional $30.90 $59.15

 3 cubic yards - First container $67.15 $109.55 - Each Additional $41.78 $84.15

 4 cubic yards

 - First container $78.05 $134.55 - Each Additional $52.65 $109.20

 6 cubic yards - First container $98.75 $183.50 - Each Additional $73.35 $158.15

 8 cubic yards - First container $120.00 $233.00 - Each Additional $94.60 $207.65

 10 cubic yards - First container $230.95 $372.25 - Each Additional $205.55 $346.85

 20 cubic yards - First container $329.04 $611.65 - Each Additional $303.65 $586.25

 Effective Through~~January 1, 2007~~December 31, 2007

 Detachable Container Uncompacted Service Compacted Service Size

 3/4 cubic yards - First container $38.75 $50.40 - Each Additional $12.05 $23.70

 1 cubic yards - First container $41.45 $56.95 - Each Additional $14.75 $30.30

 1.5 cubic yards - First container $47.50 $70.75 - Each Additional $20.80 $44.10

 2 cubic yards - First container $62.25 $93.25 - Each Additional $35.55 $66.55

 3 cubic yards - First container $74.35 $120.90 - Each Additional $47.65 $94.20

 4 cubic yards - First container $86.45 $148.50 - Each Additional $59.75 $121.80

 6 cubic yards - First container $109.30 $202.40 - Each Additional $82.65 $175.70

 8 cubic yards - First container $132.85 $257.00 - Each Additional $106.20 $230.30

 10 cubic yards - First container $267.80 $422.95 - Each Additional $241.10 $396.25

 20 cubic yards - First container $375.50 $685.80 - Each Additional $348.85 $659.15

Effective January 1, 2008  Detachable Container Uncompacted Service Compacted Service Size

 3/4 cubic yards - First container $41.35 $53.80 - Each Additional $12.85 $25.30

 1 cubic yards - First container $44.25 $60.75 - Each Additional $15.75 $32.35

 1.5 cubic yards - First container $50.70 $75.50 - Each Additional $22.20 $47.05

 2 cubic yards - First container $66.40 $99.50 - Each Additional $37.95 $71.00

 3 cubic yards - First container $79.35 $129.00 - Each Additional $50.85 $100.50

 4 cubic yards - First container $92.25 $158.45 - Each Additional $63.75 $129.95

 6 cubic yards - First container $116.60 $215.95 - Each Additional $88.20 $187.45

 8 cubic yards - First container $141.75 $274.20 - Each Additional $113.30 $245.75

 10 cubic yards - First container $285.75 $451.30 - Each Additional $257.25 $422.80

 20 cubic yards - First container $400.65 $731.75 - Each Additional $372.20 $703.30

 F. Extra Bundles of Garbage. A customer may place extra bundles of garbage with its container for regular pickup. Extra bundles of garbage will be billed in quarter yard increments as follows:

 Effective ThroughEffective January 1, 2008 ~~April 1, 2005~~December 31, 2007

 1/4 yard = $5.60 $6.00 1/2 yard = $16.80 $17.95 3/4 yard = $22.40 $23.90 1 yard = $33.60 $35.85

 The charge will be billed directly to the owner or occupant.

 G. Bulky and White Goods Pickup. Effective through ~~December 31, 2006~~December 31, 2007, a charge of Twenty Dollars ($20) for each item plus an additional charge of ~~Five~~Six Dollars ~~($5)~~($6.00) per item for items containing hazardous waste such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). Effective ~~January 1, 2007~~January 1, 2008, a charge of ~~Twenty Dollars ($20)~~Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) for each item plus an additional charge of Six Dollars ($6) per item for items containing hazardous waste such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs).

 H. Curbside/Alley Yardwaste. Effective through ~~December 31, 2006~~December 31, 2007, a charge per month or portion thereof for each residence of ~~Four Dollars and Thirty Cents ($4.30)~~Five Dollars ($5.00) for up to four (4) bundles-of-yardwaste per collection plus an additional charge of One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50) for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four (4) per collection. Effective ~~January 1, 2007~~January 1, 2008, a charge per month or portion thereof for each residence of ~~Five Dollars ($5)~~Five Dollars and Thirty-five Cents ($5.35) for up to four (4) bundles-of-yardwaste per collection plus an additional charge of ~~One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50)~~One Dollar and Sixty Cents ($1.60) for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four (4) per collection. To receive this service, a customer must be signed up with the Seattle Public Utilities for a minimum of twelve (12) months' service and place his or her yardwaste at the curbside/alley for collection on the scheduled date.

 Section 3. Section 21.40.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.40.070 Commercial collection rates and charges.

 A. Primary and Secondary Service Territories Established. The City hereby establishes two (2) primary service territories for commercial solid waste collection in the City, bordered by Royal Brougham to 4th Avenue to Dearborn, Dearborn to I-5, I-5, I-5 to Jackson, Jackson to Lake Washington. The City shall designate by ordinance one (1) contract collector of commercial solid waste to be the provider of primary services in each territory, and another collector to be the secondary service provider. Rates and charges for services provided by a primary service provider and a secondary service provider shall be according to the schedules in subsection B.

 B. Primary and Secondary Service Rates and Charges. There is imposed upon all commercial establishments in the City receiving container or drop service from one of the City's contract collectors of commercial solid waste or one of the City's contract collectors of commercial compostable waste the following schedule of rates and charges:

 1. Container Service Rates. The following charges shall apply to commercial establishments receiving primary container service for solid waste. Customers receiving secondary container service for solid waste shall pay twenty (20) percent more than the corresponding rate for primary container service for solid waste (the basic service charge including container rent and related taxes all multiplied by 1.2). Effective through December 31, 2007~~January 1, 2005~~, customers receiving primary or secondary container service for compostable waste shall pay twenty (20) percent less than the corresponding rate for primary container service for solid waste (the basic service charge including container rent multiplied by 0.80). Effective January 1, 2008, customers receiving primary or secondary container service for compostable waste shall pay thirty-two (32) percent less than the corresponding rate for primary container service for solid waste (the basic service charge including container rent multiplied by 0.68), plus any applicable taxes.

~~Container Service Non-Compacted MaterialE ffective Through December 31, 2006~~SIZE OR TYPE OF CONTAINER

 SERVICE 60 Gal 90 Gal. 1 Yd 1.5 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd TYPE Toter Toter

 Permanent Account

 First $6.15 $7.25 $16.15 $23.00 $28.05 $39.30 $50.70 $62.20 $69.35 $87.90 Pickup

 Ea. Add'l $6.15 $7.25 $16.15 $23.00 $28.05 $39.30 $50.70 $62.20 $69.35 $87.90 Pickup

 Special $7.65 $8.55 $24.45 $30.60 $36.35 $48.05 $59.70 $69.35 $78.90 $98.45 Pickups

 Monthly $1.80 $1.80 $4.80 $7.00 $9.00 $11.20 $12.75 $17.55 $19.65 $22.35 Rent

 Flat $26.55 $31.45 $70.75 $99.75 $121.60 $170.30 $219.60 $269.60 $300.60 $380.95 Monthly Pickup Charge*

 Temporary Account

 Initial $13.05 $13.05 $13.05 $13.05 $13.05 $13.05 $13.05 $13.05 Delivery

 Pickup Rate $24.45 $30.60 $36.35 $48.05 $59.70 $69.35 $78.90 $98.45

 Rent Per $3.20 $3.20 $3.20 $3.20 $3.20 $3.20 $3.20 $3.20)) Calendar Day

 Container Service Non-Compacted Material Effective Through~~January 1, 2007~~December 31, 2007

 SIZE OR TYPE OF CONTAINER

 SERVICE 60 Gal 90 Gal. 1 Yd 1.5 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd TYPE Toter Toter

 Permanent Account

 First $7.00 $8.30 $18.40 $26.20 $31.95 $44.80 $57.80 $70.95 $79.05 $100.20 Pickup

 Ea. Add'l $7.00 $8.30 $18.40 $26.20 $31.95 $44.80 $57.80 $70.95 $79.05 $100.20 Pickup

 Special $8.70 $9.75 $27.85 $34.90 $41.45 $54.75 $68.05 $79.05 $89.95 $112.20 Pickups

 Monthly $1.80 $1.80 $4.85 $7.05 $9.10 $11.30 $12.90 $17.75 $19.85 $22.55 Rent

 Flat $30.30 $35.85 $80.65 $113.70 $138.65 $194.15 $250.35 $307.35 $342.70 $434.30 Monthly Pickup Charge*

 Temporary Account

 Initial $13.20 $13.20 $13.20 $13.20 $13.20 $13.20 $13.20 $13.20 Delivery

 Pickup Rate $27.85 $34.90 $41.45 $54.75 $68.05 $79.05 $89.95 $112.20

 Rent Per $3.25 $3.25 $3.25 $3.25 $3.25 $3.25 $3.25 $3.25 Calendar Day

Container Service Non-Compacted Material Effective January 1, 2008  SIZE OR TYPE OF CONTAINER

 SERVICE TYPE 60 Gal 90 Gal. 1 Yd 1.5 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd Toter Toter

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $8.75 $10.35 $23.00 $32.70 $39.90 $55.95 $72.20 $88.60 $98.75 $125.15

 Ea. Add'l $8.75 $10.35 $23.00 $32.70 $39.90 $55.95 $72.20 $88.60 $98.75 $125.15 Pickup

 Special $10.85 $12.20 $34.80 $43.60 $51.75 $68.40 $85.00 $98.75 $112.35 $140.15 Pickups

 Monthly Rent $2.35 $2.35 $6.35 $9.25 $11.95 $14.85 $16.95 $23.30 $26.05 $29.60

 Flat Monthly $37.85 $44.80 $100.75 $142.00 $173.15 $242.50 $312.70 $383.90 $428.05 $542.45 Pickup Charge*

 Temporary Account

 Initial $16.50 $16.50 $16.50 $16.50 $16.50 $16.50 $16.50 $16.50 Delivery

 Pickup Rate $34.80 $43.60 $51.75 $68.40 $85.00 $98.75 $112.35 $140.15

 Rent Per $4.25 $4.25 $4.25 $4.25 $4.25 $4.25 $4.25 $4.25 Calendar Day

~~Container Service Compacted Material, 1 to 2 Ratio Effective Through December 31, 2006~~Size or Type of Container

 Service Type

 1 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $32.55 $50.40 $73.40 $96.25 $119.10 $142.20

 Ea. Add'l $32.55 $50.40 $73.40 $96.25 $119.10 $142.20 Pickup

 Special $41.30 $58.90 $82.40 $105.50 $127.70 $152.00 Pickups

 Monthly Rent $14.90 $29.75 $32.95 $37.20 $40.40 $44.55

 Flat Monthly $141.05 $218.50 $318.00 $417.10 $516.20 $616.15 Pickup Charge*

 Container Service Compacted Material, 1 to 2 Ratio Effective Through~~January 1, 2007~~December 31, 2007

 Size or Type of Container

 Service Type

 1 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $37.15 $57.45 $83.65 $109.75 $135.75 $162.15 $216.15

 Ea. Add'l Pickup $37.15 $57.45 $83.65 $109.75 $135.75 $162.15 $216.15

 Special Pickups $47.10 $67.15 $93.95 $120.30 $145.55 $173.30 $231.05

 Monthly Rent $15.05 $30.05 $33.30 $37.55 $40.80 $45.00 $60.00

 Flat Monthly $160.80 $249.10 $362.50 $475.47 $588.50 $702.40 $936.60 Pickup Charge*

Container Service Compacted Material, 1 to 2 Ratio Effective January 1, 2008  Size or Type of Container

 Service Type

 1 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $46.40 $71.75 $104.50 $137.10 $169.55 $202.55 $269.95

 Ea. Add'l $46.40 $71.75 $104.50 $137.10 $169.55 $202.55 $269.95 Pickup

 Special $58.85 $83.85 $117.35 $150.25 $181.80 $216.45 $288.60 Pickups

 Monthly Rent $19.75 $39.45 $43.70 $49.30 $53.55 $59.10 $78.75

 Flat Monthly $200.85 $311.15 $452.75 $593.85 $735.05 $877.30 $1,169.80 Pickup Charge*

~~Container Service Compacted Material, 1 to 5 Ratio Effective Through December 31, 2006~~Size or Type of Container

 Service Type

 1 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $46.65 $79.10 $113.00 $146.90 $182.85 $223.25

 Ea. Add'l $46.65 $79.10 $113.00 $146.90 $182.85 $223.25 Pickup

 Special $52.30 $85.05 $119.15 $153.30 $189.00 $230.20 Pickups

 Monthly Rent $16.05 $32.20 $34.05 $40.20 $43.80 $48.25

 Flat Monthly $202.20 $342.80 $489.65 $636.45 $792.25 $967.45)) Pickup Charge*

 Container Service Compacted Material, 1 to 5 Ratio Effective Through~~January 1, 2007~~December 31, 2007

 Size or Type of Container

 Service Type

 1 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $53.20 $90.15 $128.80 $167.50 $208.50 $254.50 $339.35

 Ea. Add'l Pickup $53.20 $90.15 $128.80 $167.50 $208.50 $254.50 $339.35

 Special Pickups $59.60 $96.95 $135.80 $174.75 $215.45 $262.45 $349.95

 Monthly Rent $16.20 $32.50 $34.40 $40.60 $44.25 $48.75 $65.00

 Flat Monthly Pickup $230.55 $390.75 $558.20 $725.55 $903.20 $1,102.85 $1,470.55 Charge*

Container Service Compacted Material, 1 to 5 Ratio Effective January 1, 2008  Size or Type of Container

 Service Type

 1 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $66.45 $112.60 $160.85 $209.20 $260.40 $317.85 $423.85

 Ea. Add'l Pickup $66.45 $112.60 $160.85 $209.20 $260.40 $317.85 $423.85

 Special Pickups $74.45 $121.10 $169.60 $218.25 $269.10 $327.80 $437.10

 Monthly Rent $21.25 $42.65 $45.15 $53.30 $58.10 $64.00 $85.35

 Flat Monthly Pickup $287.95 $488.05 $697.20 $906.20 $1,128.10 $1,377.45 $1,836.70 Charge*

 * "Flat monthly pickup" rate schedules exclude rental rates.

 * Can-unit Pickup. Effective through December 31, 2007, c~~C)~~ustomers receiving regularly scheduled can-unit pickup service for one (1) or more cans will be charged Three Dollars and Twenty-five Cents ($3.25) per can pickup, with a minimum monthly charge of Twenty-one Dollars and Thirty Cents ($21.30). When a set number of units are serviced each week, the customer may be billed at a flat rate equal to four and one-third (4 1/3) times the applicable unit rate, subject to the same Twenty-one Dollars and Thirty Cents ($21.30) minimum monthly charge. Effective January 1, 2008, customers receiving regularly scheduled can-unit pickup service for one (1) or more cans will be charged Four Dollars and Five Cents ($4.05) per can pickup, with a minimum monthly charge of Twenty-six Dollars and Sixty Cents ($26.60). When a set number of units are serviced each week, the customer may be billed at a flat rate equal to four and one-third (4 1/3) times the applicable unit rate, subject to the same Twenty-six Dollars and Sixty Cents ($26.60) minimum monthly charge.

 * Bulky Waste Collection. Effective through ~~December 31, 2006~~December 31, 2007, customers setting out bulky waste will be charged at the rate of ~~Thirteen Dollars and Sixty-five Cents ($13.65)~~Fifteen Dollars and Eighty Cents ($15.80) per cubic yard for such waste. Effective ~~January 1, 2007~~January 1, 2008, customers setting out bulky waste will be charged at the rate of ~~Fifteen Dollars and Eighty Cents ($15.80)~~Nineteen Dollars and Seventy-five Cents ($19.75) per cubic yard for such waste. The charges for bulky waste collection will be assessed per one-quarter (1/4) cubic yard. Any such charges will be in addition to the customer's regular container collection service charges.

 * Overload Container Charges. A toter or container whose contents exceed one (1) foot above the top of the toter or container will be charged at the bulky waste collection rate on a per one-quarter ( 1/4) cubic yard basis.

 2. Drop Box Service Rates. The following charges shall apply to commercial establishments receiving primary drop box service for solid waste. Customers receiving secondary drop box service for solid waste shall pay fifteen (15) percent more than the corresponding rate for primary drop box service for solid waste (the basic service charge including container rent and related taxes all multiplied by 1.15). Effective ~~January 1, 2005~~through December 31, 2007, customers receiving primary or secondary drop box service for compostable waste shall pay twenty (20) percent less than the corresponding rate for primary drop box service for solid waste (the basic service charge including container rent multiplied by 0.80). Effective January 1, 2008, customers receiving primary or secondary drop box service for compostable waste shall pay thirty-two (32) percent less than the corresponding rate for primary drop box service for solid waste (the basic service charge including container rent multiplied by 0.68), plus any applicable taxes.

~~Drop Box Service Noncompacted Material Effective Through December 31, 2006~~Size or Type of Container SERVICE TYPE

 3 -4Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd 10 Yd 12 Yd 15 Yd 16 Yd 20Yd 25Yd 30Yd 40 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First $63.75 $63.75 $63.75 $85.50 $85.50 $85.50 $85.50 $85.50 $85.50 $85.50 $85.50 Pickup

 Ea. $63.75 $63.75 $63.75 $85.50 $85.50 $85.50 $85.50 $85.50 $85.50 $85.50 $85.50 Add'l Pickup

 Special $73.90 $73.90 $73.90 $94.30 $94.30 $94.30 $94.30 $94.30 $94.30 $94.30 $94.30 Pickups

 Monthly $13.20 $25.30 $27.45 $29.65 $32.95 $36.25 $38.85 $41.70 $52.75 $63.70 $69.15 Rent

 Temporary Account

 Pickup $73.90 $94.30 $94.30 $94.30 $94.30 $94.30 $94.30 $94.30 $94.30 Rate

 Rent $3.30 $3.30 $3.30 $3.30 $4.40 $4.40 $4.40 $5.50 $5.50 Per Calendar Day

 Drop Box Service Noncompacted Material Effective Through~~January 1, 2007~~December 31, 2007

 Size or Type of Container SERVICE TYPE

 3 -4Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd 10 Yd 12 Yd 15 Yd 16 Yd 20Yd 25Yd 30Yd 40 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First $72.65 $72.65 $72.65 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 Pickup

 Ea. $72.65 $72.65 $72.65 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 Add'l Pickup

 Special $84.25 $84.25 $84.25 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $170.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 Pickups

 Monthly $13.85 $26.55 $28.80 $31.15 $34.60 $38.05 $40.80 $43.80 $55.40 $66.90 $72.60 Rent

 Temporary Account

 Pickup $84.25 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 Rate

 Rent $3.45 $3.45 $3.45 $3.45 $4.60 $4.60 $4.60 $5.80 $5.80 Per Calendar Day

Drop Box Service Noncompacted Material Effective January 1, 2008  Size or Type of Container SERVICE TYPE

 3 -4Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd 10 Yd 12 Yd 15 Yd 16 Yd 20Yd 25Yd 30Yd 40 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First $90.75 $90.75 $90.75 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 Pickup

 Ea. $90.75 $90.75 $90.75 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 Add'l Pickup

 Special $105.25 $105.25 $105.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 Pickups

 Monthly $18.20 $34.85 $37.80 $40.90 $45.45 $49.95 $53.55 $57.50 $72.75 $87.85 $95.30 Rent

 Temporary Account

 Pickup $105.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 Rate

 Rent $4.55 $4.55 $4.55 $4.55 $6.05 $6.05 $6.05 $7.60 $7.60 Per Calendar Day

~~Drop Box Service Compacted Material Effective Through December 31, 2006~~SERVICE TYPE

 10 Yd 15 Yd 20 Yd 25 Yd 30 yd 40 yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $131.60 $131.60 $131.60 $131.60 $131.60 $131.60

 Ea. Add'l $131.60 $131.60 $131.60 $131.60 $131.60 $131.60 Pickup

 Special $142.60 $142.60 $142.60 $142.60 $142.60 $142.60)) Pickups

 Drop Box Service Compacted Material Effective Through~~January 1, 2007~~December 31, 2007

 SERVICE TYPE

 10 Yd 15 Yd 20 Yd 25 Yd 30 yd 40 yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 $150.05

 Ea. Add'l $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 Pickup

 Special $162.55 $162.55 $162.55 $162.55 $162.55 $162.55 Pickups

Drop Box Service Compacted Material Effective January 1, 2008  SERVICE TYPE

 10 Yd 15 Yd 20 Yd 25 Yd 30 yd 40 yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 $187.40

 Ea. Add'l $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 Pickup

 Special $203.05 $203.05 $203.05 $203.05 $203.05 $203.05

 Pickups

 3. A&E (Ancillary and Elective) Service Charges. The following charges shall apply to commercial establishments receiving any of the A&E (Ancillary and Elective) Services listed in the table below. Customers receiving secondary container service for solid waste shall pay twenty (20) percent more for A&E Services than primary container solid waste service customers (the applicable A&E service charge(s) multiplied by 1.2). Customers receiving secondary drop box service for solid waste shall pay fifteen (15) percent more for A&E Services than primary drop box solid waste service customers (the applicable A&E service charge(s) multiplied by 1.15). Effective January 1, 2005, customers receiving primary or secondary container or drop box service for compostable waste shall pay the same amount for A&E Services as primary container or drop box solid waste service customers.

 A&E Service Charges ~~Effective~~ Effective Effective January~~Through~~Through 1, 2008 ~~December 31,~~~~January 1, 2007~~~~2006~~December 31, 2007

 Type of Service ~~Charge to~~ Charge to Customer Charge to Customer~~Customer~~

 Deliveries

 Toter initial delivery-Permanent ~~$11.75~~ $12.00 $15.00

 Container initial delivery-Temporary ~~$13.80~~ $14.10 $17.60  1-8 CY

 Container initial delivery-Permanent ~~$13.80~~ $14.10 $17.60  1-8 CY

 Drop box initial delivery-Temporary ~~$19.55~~ $19.95 $24.90  3-8 CY

 Drop box initial delivery-Permanent ~~$19.55~~ $19.95 $24.90  3-8 CY

 Drop box initial delivery-Temporary ~~$30.90~~ $31.50 $39.35  10-40 CY

 Drop box initial delivery-Permanent ~~$30.90~~ $31.50 $39.35  10-40 CY

 Pickup Ancillary Services

 Temporary pickup ~~$13.90~~ $14.20 $17.75

 Return trip-Can ~~$4.40~~ $4.50 $5.60

 Return trip-Container ~~$9.25~~ $9.45 $11.80

 Return trip-Drop Box ~~$37.10~~ $37.85 $47.25

 Time rates for Special Event Service, ~~$1.25, 30~~ $1.30, 30-minute minimum $1.60, 30-minute Deliveries/Pickups* ~~minute~~minimum ~~minimum~~

 Container, Drop Box, and Compactor Special Services

 Pickup/redelivery up to 8 CY ~~$13.90~~ $14.20 $17.75

 Pickup/redelivery over 8 CY ~~$30.90~~ $31.50 $39.35

 Washing and steam cleaning, per CY ~~$2.05~~ $2.10 $2.60

 Washing and steam cleaning, minimum ~~$15.45~~ $15.75 $19.65  payment

 Sanitizing containers, per CY ~~$0.95~~ $0.95 $1.20

 Sanitizing containers, minimum payment ~~$10.30~~ $10.50 $13.10

 Compactor disconnect/reconnect cycle ~~$20.60~~ $21.00 $26.25

 Container, drop box compactor ~~$16.40~~ $16.75 $20.90  turnaround

 Drop box solid lid monthly provision ~~$12.15~~ $12.40 $15.50

 Overtime service, hourly premium for ~~$35.55, in~~ $36.25, in 4 hour $45.30, in 4 hour service provided between Saturday, ~~4 hour~~ increments increments  4:00 p.m., to Sunday, 5:00 p.m. ~~increments~~

 Replacement lock for container, if ~~$10.30~~ $10.50 $13.10  requested more frequently than every 12 months

 3. A&E (Ancillary and Elective) Service Charges. The following charges shall apply to commercial establishments receiving any of the A&E (Ancillary and Elective) Services listed in the table below. Customers receiving secondary container service for solid waste shall pay twenty (20) percent more for A&E Services than primary container solid waste service customers (the applicable A&E service charge(s) multiplied by 1.2). Customers receiving secondary drop box service for solid waste shall pay fifteen (15) percent more for A&E Services than primary drop box solid waste service customers (the applicable A&E service charge(s) multiplied by 1.15). Effective January 1, 2005, customers receiving primary or secondary container or drop box service for compostable waste shall pay the same amount for A&E Services as primary container or drop box solid waste service customers.

 * Qualification for this rate requires preapproval by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities.

 4. Disposal Fee for MSW and Processing Fee for Compostable Waste Drop Box Service. Effective through ~~December 31, 2006~~December 31, 2007, disposal fees for MSW drop box service shall be assessed on each MSW drop box load at the rate of ~~Eighty Dollars and Twenty Cents ($80.20)~~Eighty-one Dollars and Twenty-five Cents ($81.25) per ton, measured on a per tip basis rounded to the next highest one-hundredth ( 1/100) ton. Effective ~~January 1, 2007~~January 1, 2008, disposal fees for MSW drop box service shall be assessed on each MSW drop box load at the rate of ~~Eighty One Dollars and Twenty Five Cents ($81.25)~~One Hundred Seventeen Dollars and Forty-five Cents ($117.45) per ton, measured on a per tip basis rounded to the next highest one-hundredth ( 1/100) ton. Effective January 1, 2005, processing fees for compostable waste drop box service shall be assessed on each compostable waste drop box load at the rate of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) per ton, measured on a per tip basis rounded to the next highest one-hundredth ( 1/100) ton.

 5. Application of Taxes and Local Hazardous Waste Plan Fee. The following taxes and fees shall be added to the collection and disposal charges set forth in this section.

 a. Household Hazardous Waste Collection Fees as set by The Local Hazardous Waste Management Program in King County pursuant to RCW 70.105.220;

 b. Seattle Solid Waste Collection Taxes contained in Seattle Municipal Code, Section 5.48.055;

 c. State Solid Waste Collection Taxes; and

 d. Retail Sales Tax levies on container rental charges.

 6. Payment of Charges -- Delinquency and Lien.

 a. Collection and disposal charges shall be against the premises served and when such charges have not been paid within ninety (90) days after billing, service shall be discontinued and the charges shall constitute a lien against the premises served. Notice of the City's lien specifying the amount due, the period covered and giving the legal description of the premises sought to be charged may be filed with the County Auditor within the time required and may be foreclosed in the manner and within the time prescribed for liens for labor and material, as authorized by RCW 35.21.140.

 b. Penalty interest at the rate of twelve (12) percent per year, computed monthly, shall be added to collection and disposal charges that become delinquent. Penalty interest shall be imposed on all such charges that remain unpaid thirty (30) days after their bill date and shall continue until such charges are paid.

 C. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities may adjust the service level to a commercial establishment to match the amount of garbage and rubbish actually collected from that establishment.

 Section 4. Effective January 1, 2008, Paragraph 21.40.070 B.5 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:

 21.40.070 Commercial collection rates and charges.

 * * * * * *

 5. Application of ~~Taxes and~~Local Hazardous Waste Plan Fee. The following ~~taxes and~~fees shall be added to the collection and disposal charges set forth in this section.

~~a.~~ Household Hazardous Waste Collection Fees as set by the Local Hazardous Waste Management Program in King County pursuant to RCW 70.105.220, with applicable taxes.

~~; b. Seattle Solid Waste Collection Taxes contained in Seattle Municipal Code, Section 5.48.055;~~c. State Solid Waste Collection Taxes; and

~~d. Retail Sales Tax levies on container rental charges.~~

 Section 5. Section 21.40.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.40.080 Recycling and disposal station rates.

 A. Basic Rates. The following rates are established for the use of the City's recycling and disposal stations.

 Types of Waste and Vehicle ~~Effective Through December 31, 2006~~ Effective Through ~~January 1, 2007~~December 31, 2007

 1. Deposit of Contaminant-free Clean Recyclables.

 Any vehicle ~~No Charge~~ No Charge

 2. Deposit of Refuse.

 Sedans, station wagons, ~~$14.00 per entry~~ $20.00 per entry sport utility vehicles (all without trailers)

 Other vehicles (e.g., ~~$99.15 per ton; minimum charge of~~ $110.00 per ton; minimum charge of trucks, vans (including ~~$14.00 per vehicle~~ $20.00 per vehicle minivans), vehicles with trailers, travel-alls, motor homes, and modified buses, aid cars and commercial vehicles)

 3. Deposit of Source Separated Yard Waste at Yard Waste Collection Areas.

 Sedans, station wagons, ~~$12.00 per entry~~ $13 per entry sport utility vehicles (all without trailers)

 Other vehicles (e.g., ~~$72.75 per ton; minimum charge~~ $80.00 per ton; minimum charge of $13 trucks, vans (including ~~of $12.00 per vehicle~~ per vehicle minivans), vehicles with trailers, travel-alls, motor homes, and modified buses, aid cars and commercial vehicles)

 4. Deposit of Source Separated Clean Wood at Clean Wood Collection Areas.

 Sedans, station wagons, ~~$12.00 per entry~~ $13 per entry sport utility vehicles (all without trailers)

 Other vehicles (e.g., ~~$50.90 per ton; minimum charge~~ $55.00 per ton; minimum charge of $13 trucks, vans (including ~~of $12.00 per vehicle~~ per vehicle minivans), vehicles with trailers, travel-alls, motor homes, and modified buses, aid cars and commercial vehicles)

 5. Deposit of Passenger ~~$8.25 per load; maximum of~~ $10.00 per load; maximum of four (4) Vehicle Tires: ~~four (4) tires per load~~ tires per load

 6. Deposit of Household Hazardous Waste Only.

 Passenger and other ~~No charge~~ No charge noncommercial vehicles

 7. Deposit of a Combination of Refuse and White Goods, Seattle Residents Only.

 All vehicles ~~$99.15 per ton plus $5.70 per~~ $110.00 per ton plus $6.00 per white ~~white good; a maximum of~~ good; a maximum of two (2) white goods ~~two (2) white goods per load~~ per load

 8. Deposit of White Goods Only, Seattle Residents Only.

 All vehicles ~~$16.20 per white good; a maximum~~ $20.00 per white good; a maximum of two ~~of two (2) white~~ (2) white goods per load ~~goods per load~~

Types of Waste and VehicleEffectiveJanuary 1, 2008

1. Deposit of Contaminant-freeClean Recyclables.

Any vehicle No Charge

2. Deposit of Refuse.

Sedans, station wagons, sport$25.00 perutility vehicles (all withoutentrytrailers)

Other vehicles (e.g., trucks, vans$130.00 per ton;(including minivans), vehiclesminimum charge ofwith trailers,$25.00travel-alls, motorper vehiclehomes, and modified buses, aid carsand commercialvehicles)

3. Deposit of Source SeparatedYard Waste at Yard WasteCollection Areas.

Sedans, station wagons, sport$15 perutility vehicles (all withoutentrytrailers)

Other vehicles (e.g., trucks, vans$85.00 per ton; minimum(including minivans), vehiclescharge of $15 perwith trailers,travel-alls, motor vehicle homes, and modified buses, aid carsand commercialvehicles)

4. Deposit of SourceSeparated Clean Wood at CleanWood Collection Areas.

Sedans, station wagons, sport$15 perutility vehicles (all withoutentrytrailers)

Other vehicles (e.g., trucks, vans$59.00 per ton; minimum(including minivans), vehicles withcharge of $15 per vehicletrailers,travel-alls, motorhomes, and modified buses, aid carsand commercial vehicles)

5. Deposit of Passenger Vehicle$11.00 per load;Tires: tires per loadmaximum of four (4)

6. Deposit of HouseholdHazardous Waste Only.

Passenger and otherNo chargenoncommercial vehicles

7. Deposit of a Combination ofRefuse and White Goods, SeattleResidents Only.

All vehicles$130.00 perton plus $7.00per white good;a maximum of two(2) white goodsper load

8. Deposit of White Goods Only, Seattle ResidentsOnly.

All vehicles$25.00 per white good;amaximum of two (2)white goods per load

 B. Collection of Charges. It shall be the duty of the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his/her authorized agent, to issue and sell tickets at City recycling and disposal stations for the privilege of such disposal; provided, that such disposal charges shall not apply to the disposal of earth or other material suitable for road construction when disposal of same has been approved by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities or his/her authorized agent.

 C. State Tax Collection and Refund. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his/her authorized agent, has the authority to collect taxes due as required by state law and to make refunds to any person entitled thereto under state law.

 D. Charitable Organizations Reusing Goods.

 1. a. Effective through ~~December 31, 2006~~December 31, 2007, a qualified charitable organization shall be charged at the rate of ~~Fifty-six Dollars and Sixty-five Cents ($56.65)~~Sixty-two Dollars and Seventy Cents ($62.70) per ton for the disposal on an ongoing basis, rather than on an occasional or incidental basis, of refuse generated within Seattle only, that is deposited at City recycling and disposal stations.

 b. Effective ~~January 1, 2007~~January 1, 2008, a qualified charitable organization shall be charged at the rate of ~~Sixty-two Dollars and Seventy Cents ($62.70)~~Seventy-four Dollars and Ten Cents ($74.10) per ton for the disposal on an ongoing basis, rather than on an occasional or incidental basis, of refuse generated within Seattle only, that is deposited at City recycling and disposal stations.

 2. Qualified charitable organizations may dispose of white goods at no charge under the following conditions:

 a. White goods must be delivered directly to the City's selected vendor for white good processing ("vendor").

 b. By the tenth of each month, the qualified charitable organization must provide Seattle Public Utilities with dated receipts from the vendor for all of the white goods disposed of in the previous month.

 c. The number of white goods disposed of in a calendar year may not exceed the average the number of white goods delivered to City recycling and disposal stations by the qualified charitable organization in 1997 and 1998. If the above conditions are not met or if limits set forth in subsection D2c are exceeded, qualified charitable organizations shall be charged at a per-unit rate equal to that established by contract between the City and its selected vendor.

 3. For purposes of this subsection D, a charitable organization shall be considered a qualified charitable organization if found by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his/her authorized agent, after application by such organization to the Director, to:

 a. Be a credit customer of the Seattle Public Utilities;

 b. Be a nonprofit charitable organization recognized as such by the Internal Revenue Service; and

 c. Be engaged, as a primary form of its doing business, in processing abandoned goods for resale or reuse.

 E. Interest on Delinquent City Recycling and Disposal Stations Payments. Interest shall accrue on delinquent payments of customers at City recycling and disposal stations at the rate of twelve (12) percent per annum from thirty (30) days after the bill date and shall continue until the bill is paid.

 F. Requirements for Special Event, Free Disposal. Under certain conditions, Seattle Public Utilities shall offer free disposal at City recycling and disposal stations for special events. An organization shall be qualified for free disposal for a special event if the organization's written application to the Director of Seattle Public Utilities is found by the Director, or his/her authorized agent, to:

 1. Be the only such request from the organization for the calendar year;

 2. Support the City's goals for cleaner neighborhoods and environments;

 3. Not to supplant any current or existing agency responsibilities or activities; and

 4. Provide benefit to SPU as well as the community or the City.

 G. Waiver of Residential Disposal Rates Under Certain Circumstances. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities has discretion to waive disposal rates for City residents for yard waste or refuse for up to sixty (60) days at a time when the Director determines that unique or emergency situations, such as transitions in collection service, incidents of arson, windstorms, etc., make it prudent to encourage self-haul of refuse or yard waste to City recycling and disposal stations by waiving the disposal fee for a limited period.

 H. 1. Effective through ~~December 31, 2006~~December 31, 2007, the Seattle Housing Authority shall be charged at the rate of ~~Fifty-six Dollars and Sixty-five Cents ($56.65)~~Sixty-two Dollars and Seventy Cents ($62.70) per ton for the disposal of up to five thousand eight hundred (5,800) tons per calendar year of refuse that is deposited at City recycling and disposal stations. If the actual tons delivered in a calendar year exceed this maximum, Seattle Housing Authority shall be charged the per ton rate for refuse set forth in subsection A of this section for the additional tons.

 2. Effective ~~January 1, 2007~~January 1, 2008, the Seattle Housing Authority shall be charged at the rate of ~~Sixty- two Dollars and Seventy Cents ($62.70)~~Seventy-four Dollars and Ten Cents ($74.10) per ton for the disposal of up to five thousand eight hundred (5,800) tons per calendar year of refuse that is deposited at City recycling and disposal stations. If the actual tons delivered in a calendar year exceed this maximum, Seattle Housing Authority shall be charged the per ton rate for refuse set forth in subsection A of this section for the additional tons.

 Section 6. Subsection 21.40.085 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.40.085 Commercial railyard rate.

 A. 1. Effective through ~~December 31, 2006~~December 31, 2007, nonresidential, non-contract solid waste generated within the City and directed by the City to the Argo Yard or its successor facility for transport and disposal shall be charged ~~Sixty-six Dollars and Eighty-five Cents ($66.85)~~Sixty-seven Dollars ($67.00) per ton with a minimum charge of ~~One Thousand Six Hundred Seventy-one Dollars and Twenty-five Cents ($1,671.25)~~One Thousand Six Hundred Seventy-five Dollars ($1,675.00).

 2. Effective ~~January 1, 2007~~January 1, 2008,

 nonresidential, non-contract solid waste generated within the City and directed by the City to the Argo Yard or its successor facility for transport and disposal shall be ~~Sixty-seven Dollars ($67)~~Seventy-one Dollars and Fifty Cents ($71.50) per ton with a minimum charge of ~~One Thousand Six Hundred Seventy Five Dollars and No Cents ($1,675.00)~~One Thousand Seven Hundred Eighty- eight Dollars ($1,788.00).

 * * * * *

 Section 7. Subsection 21.76.040 B of the Seattle Municipal Code Section is amended as follows:

 21.76.040 Low Income Rate Credits.

 * * * * *

 B. Solid Waste. Persons qualified by the Director of the Human Services Department as eligible recipients of Low Income Rate Assistance (LIRA) shall be granted low income billing credits or rates as follows:

 1. Eligible recipients who are billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for garbage container, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.014, services shall receive a credit equal to 0.5 times the current billing.

 2. Eligible recipients with twice weekly garbage container, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.014, service shall be charged 0.5 times the rate calculated in subsection B of SMC Section 21.40.050.

 3. Effective through ~~December 31, 2006~~December 31, 2007, eligible recipients who are billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for yardwaste service shall be charged per month or a portion thereof for each dwelling unit, billed directly to the owner or occupant, of ~~Two Dollars and Fifteen Cents ($2.15)~~Two Dollars and Fifty Cents ($2.50) for up to four (4) bundles-of-yardwaste, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.010, per collection plus an additional charge of Seventy-five Cents ($0.75) for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four (4) per collection. Effective ~~January 1, 2007~~January 1, 2008, eligible recipients who are billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for yardwaste service shall be charged per month or a portion thereof for each dwelling unit, billed directly to the owner or occupant, of ~~Two Dollars and Fifty Cents ($2.50)~~Two Dollars and Seventy Cents ($2.70) for up to four (4) bundles-of-yardwaste, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.010, per collection plus an additional charge of Seventy-five Cents $0.75 for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four (4) per collection.

 4. Eligible recipients not billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for solid waste services and receiving garbage container, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.014, yardwaste, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.016, or detachable container, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.012, service shall receive the following credits:

~~Effective Through December 31, 2006~~Garbage container customers $8.20 per month

 Detachable container $6.10 per month customers

 Yardwaste customers $2.15 per month

 Effective Through~~January 1, 2007~~December 31, 2007

 Garbage container customers $8.30 per month

 Detachable container $6.45 per month customers

 Yardwaste customers $2.50 per month

 + Effective January 1, 2008

 Garbage container customers $8.85 per month

 Detachable container $6.90 per month customers

 Yardwaste customers $2.65 per month

 Section 8. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If any one or more of the provisions of this ordinance shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, then such provision or provisions shall be null and void and severed from the rest of this ordinance, and all other provisions of this ordinance shall remain valid and enforceable.

 Section 9. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 September 25, 2007 version #2a t

```
