

********

**Council Bill Number: 115998**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122517**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to drainage services of Seattle Public Utilities (SPU); updating definitions; adjusting drainage rates; updating bill adjustment parameters; providing right of entry for the Director of SPU to verify property characteristics; revising credits to low-income drainage customers; and amending Chapters 21.33 and 21.76 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 1, 2007
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 11, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 11, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 4, 2007
   
**Committee:** Environment, Emergency Management and Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** UTILITY-RATES, DRAINAGE-AND-WASTEWATER-UTILITY

**Fiscal Note:**115998

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122517](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122517.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to drainage services of Seattle Public Utilities (SPU); updating definitions; adjusting drainage rates; updating bill adjustment parameters; providing right of entry for the Director of SPU to verify property characteristics; revising credits to low-income drainage customers; and amending Chapters 21.33 and 21.76 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 WHEREAS, drainage rates were last increased on January 1, 2007, as authorized by Ordinance 122281; and

 WHEREAS, in 2008, a new drainage rate design authorized by Resolution 30886 is being implemented for the first time, which will require updating definitions, rate categories, calculation methodologies and bills and which specifies the funding by drainage rates of a portion of combined sanitary and storm sewer expenses (including some wastewater treatment expense); and

 WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities (SPU) has identified additional infrastructure needs requiring capital funding, including a long-term solution for Madison Valley, a study of South Park storm drainage and water quality, combined sewer overflow projects at Windermere and South Henderson, and utility relocation work necessitated by the Alaskan Way Viaduct and Seawall Replacement Project; and

 WHEREAS, SPU has completed a rate study showing that existing rates will not provide sufficient revenues to pay the costs of providing drainage services and debt service and that rate increases therefore are required; and

 WHEREAS, credits for qualified low-income customers need to be revised to reflect an increase in drainage and wastewater rates; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 21.33.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 21.33.010 Definitions

 For purposes of this chapter, the words or phrases below shall have the following meanings:

 A. "Billing year" means the calendar year that bills are sent. The first billing year shall be from January 1, 1989 through December 31, 1989.

 B. "City" means The City of Seattle.

 C. "Condominiums" or "townhouses" means ~~residential~~ properties ~~or parcels~~ which contain more than two (2) residential dwelling units which are individually owned and are billed separately for property taxes.

 D. "Drainage service charge" means the fee for surface and stormwater management services imposed by the City upon all parcels of real property, except exempted properties, located within the boundaries of the City. The drainage service charge shall be calculated in accordance with Section 33.030 of this Chapter.

E. "Drainage rate" means the dollar charge assigned to each rate category which shall be used in the calculation of the drainage service charge.

F.~~E.~~ "Houseboats and piers" means property or parcels that rest on or over natural bodies of water.

G.~~F.~~ "Impervious surface" or "impervious ground cover" means those hard areas which prevent or retard the entry of water into the soil in the manner that such water entered the soil under natural conditions pre-existent to development, or which cause water to run off the surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow than that present under natural conditions pre-existent to development, including, but not limited to, such surfaces as rooftops, asphalt or concrete paving, driveways, parking lots, walkways, patio areas, storage areas, hardpan, compacted surfaces, or other surfaces which similarly affect the natural infiltration or runoff patterns existing prior to development.

H. "Highly infiltrative pervious surface" means vegetated surfaces of specific types such as forests or non-forested land that is in the natural progression back to a forested state.

~~G. "Non-single-family residential properties or parcels"~~I. "General service properties or parcels" means properties or parcels with no existing single family or duplex dwelling unit, including vacant properties, condominium complexes, townhouses, apartment buildings,~~which contain more than two (2) residential dwelling units~~ and institutional, commercial or industrial properties.

~~H. "Open space" means parcels defined as greenbelts, natural areas, or park zones in the Mayor's Recommended Open Space Policies and identified as such on the Mayor's Recommended Open Space Zoning Map or as subsequently adopted by the City Council.~~

~~I.~~J. "Parcel" means the smallest separately segregated unit or plot of land having an identified owner(s), boundaries, and area as defined by the King County Assessor and recorded in the King County Assessor Real Property File or in the King County Assessor maps.

K. "Billable area" means the total parcel area less any portion of the parcel which is exempt from drainage service charges pursuant to Subsection 21.33.030 A of the Seattle Municipal Code.

~~J.~~L. "Percent of impervious surface" means the quotient of the total amount of estimated impervious surface located on the parcel divided by the ~~total~~ parcel's total billable area ~~size~~. For purposes of rate category determination, the resulting amount shall be rounded to the nearest whole percent.

~~K.~~M. "Property owner of record" shall be the person or persons recorded by the King County Assessor to be the owner(s) of property and to whom property tax statements are directed.

~~L.~~N. "Rate category" means the classification of properties~~, based upon the estimated percentage of impervious surface on the parcel,~~into groups based on their common characteristics (such as percentage of impervious surface), for purposes of establishing drainage service charges.

~~M.~~O. "Residence" means a building or structure or portion thereof, designed to be used as a place of abode for human beings and not used for any other purpose. The term "residence" includes the term "residential," "residential unit," and "dwelling unit" as referring to the type of or intended use of a building or structure.

~~N.~~P. "Single-family residential property or parcel" means any property or parcel which contains one (1) or two (2) residential dwelling units, excluding townhouses which are considered general service properties or parcels.

Q. "Large residential property or parcel" means any single family residential property whose total area is 10,000 square feet or greater.  R. "Small residential property or parcel" means any single family residential property whose total area is less than 10,000 square feet.

~~O.~~S. "Submerged" means that portion of a parcel that extends beyond the shoreline, as delineated by the City's Geographic Information System (GIS)~~as drawn on the King County Assessor's maps~~.

~~P.~~T. "System" means the entire system of flood protection and stormwater drainage and surface water runoff facilities owned or leased by the City or over which the City has right of use for the movement and control of storm drainage and surface water runoff, including both naturally occurring and man-made facilities.

~~Q.~~U. "Utility" means Seattle Public Utilities.

 Section 2. Section 21.33.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 21.33.030 Drainage service charges and drainage rates -- Schedule -- Exemptions.

 A. A drainage service charge is imposed on every parcel within the City, and the owner(s) thereof, except for the following exempted property(ies):

 1. Houseboats and piers;

 2. That portion of a parcel that is submerged. If the parcel is entirely submerged, the entire parcel is exempt. If a portion of the parcel is submerged, only the submerged part will be exempt and the remainder of the parcel shall be billed as all other properties;

 3. City streets;

 4. State of Washington highways, so long as the State of Washington shall agree to maintain, construct and improve all drainage facilities associated with State highways as required by the Utility in conformance with all Utility standards for maintenance, construction and improvement hereafter established by the Utility and so far as such maintenance, construction and improvements shall be achieved at no cost to the Utility or to the City; and

 5. All other streets, so long as such streets provide drainage services in the same manner as City streets and the owner(s) shall agree to maintain, construct and improve all drainage facilities associated with such streets as required by the Utility in conformance with all Utility standards for maintenance, construction and improvement hereafter established by the Utility and so far as such maintenance, construction and improvements shall be achieved at no cost to the Utility or to the City.

 B. The drainage service charge ~~established herein~~ shall be based upon ~~the~~a parcel's estimated contribution ~~of increased~~to City-wide surface and storm water runoff ~~from a parcel to the system~~. A parcel's run-off is estimated based on its size and surface characteristics, including the amount and type of impervious and pervious surface it contains.~~Single-family residential parcels are grouped together in one (1) rate category based on an estimated City-wide average contribution of surface and storm water runoff. The amount of contribution for other properties is measured by the estimated percentage of impervious surface area on the parcel and the total area of the parcel.~~

 C. Drainage service charges~~rate categories~~ shall be determined as follows:

 1. Small~~S~~single-family residential properties shall be assigned to one of four (4) flat rate categories based on billable area~~a flat fee rate category~~. Within each category,~~P~~p~~~~roperties ~~within this rate category~~ will be charged a uniform annual ~~fee~~drainagerate per parcel which is calculated based on an estimated average contribution of surface and storm water runoff for the category. The applicable drainage rate shall equal the drainage service charge.

~~2. Parcels meeting the definition of open space and having less than or equal to two (2) percent of impervious surface shall be assigned to the open space rate category. The drainage service charge shall be calculated by multiplying the open space rate by the parcel's area (rounded to the nearest one one-hundredth ( 1/100) of an acre)~~

~~3. All other~~2. General service and large residential properties shall be assigned to a rate category ~~within which properties are classified according to~~based on the estimated percent of impervious surface contained within the parcel. Subsequently, properties assigned to the "undeveloped," "light," and "moderate" rate categories that also contain sufficient quantities of highly infiltrative pervious surface cover to meet Utility-defined performance requirements shall be assigned to a "low impact" rate category. A separate drainage rate shall apply to each ~~classification within the~~general service and large residential rate category. The drainage service charge shall be calculated by multiplying the drainage rate, as determined by the parcel's rate category assignment~~classification~~, by the parcel's billable area (rounded to the nearest whole number of a square foot and divided by one-thousand ~~one one-hundredth ( 1/100) of an acre~~. For condominiums ~~and townhouses~~, the drainage service charge shall be determined for the entire parcel and then divided evenly among the owners. ~~Land~~Present use code, site visits, planimetric maps based on aerial photography, and other information shall be used to estimate the percentage of impervious area.

 D. Drainage rates used in the calculation of drainage service charges shall be the sum of the treatment rate and the system rate,~~The rate categories and the corresponding annual drainage service charges are~~ as follows:

1. Treatment rate: The "treatment rate" shall be the rate required to pay the drainage share of "treatment cost" which is the cost of wastewater treatment, interception and disposal services, and any associated costs necessary to meet Drainage and Wastewater Fund policies. The treatment rate shall be the amount obtained when (a) the projected drainage treatment cost for each rate category is divided by (b) the projected number of billing units in each rate category, and the result is multiplied by one hundred sixteen and three-tenths percent (116.3%) to cover the costs of taxes and low income rate assistance. The projected treatment cost shall be the treatment cost anticipated for the upcoming calendar year, which may include an adjustment to reflect the difference, whether positive or negative, between the drainage share of expected total treatment cost for the current year and the total drainage service charge revenues attributable to the treatment rate expected for the current year. The treatment rate is designed to pass through cost changes driven by King County and may be adjusted by ordinance at any time in response to such changes.

2. System rate: The "system rate" shall be the rate required to fund the expense associated with operating, maintaining, and constructing the City's surface and stormwater management system, including any share of combined sanitary and stormwater system expense assigned to drainage.  3. The rate categories and the corresponding annual drainage rates are as follows:

~~Effective~~ Effective

~~Jan. 1, 2006~~ Jan. 1, 2007 Single-family residential ~~$136.10 per parcel~~ $142.00 per parcel General Service Properties:

 Open space (0 -- 2% impervious~~173.77 per acre~~ 187.31 per acre

~~All Other Properties Classificatio~~~~n~~

~~1~~. (0 -- 15% ~~302.19 per acre~~ 325.49 per acre impervious

~~2~~. (16 -- 35% ~~501.84 per acre~~ 539.49 per acre impervious

~~3~~. (36 -- 65% ~~908.01 per acre~~ 978.87 per acre impervious

~~4~~. (66 -- 85% ~~1,183.79 per acre~~ 1,275.27 per acre impervious

~~5~~. (86 -- 100% ~~1,468.73 per acre~~ 1,584.92 per acre impervious

Effective January 1, 2008:  Rate Category Treatment System Total Billing Unit Rate Rate Drainage Rate

 Small Residential

 Under 3000 sq. ft. $2.00 $89.38 $91.38 per parcel

 3000-4999 sq. ft $2.90 $129.75 $132.65 per parcel

 5000-6999 sq. ft $3.92 $175.35 $179.27 per parcel

 7000-9999 sq. ft. $4.96 $208.04 $213.00 per parcel

 General Service/Large Residential

 Undeveloped (0-15% impervious)

 Low Impact $0.20 $8.89 $9.09 per 1000 Sq Ft

 Regular $0.32 $10.89 $11.21 per 1000 Sq Ft

 Light (16-35% impervious)

 Low Impact $0.37 $16.62 $16.99 per 1000 Sq Ft

 Regular $0.49 $18.09 $18.58 per 1000 Sq Ft

 Moderate (36-65% impervious)

 Low Impact $0.58 $26.05 $26.63 per 1000 Sq Ft

 Regular $0.71 $32.12 $32.83 per 1000 Sq Ft

 Heavy (66-85% impervious) $0.92 $41.60 $42.52 per 1000 Sq Ft

 Very Heavy (86-100% impervious) $1.09 $49.44 $50.53 per 1000 Sq Ft \

 Effective January 1, 2009

 Rate Category Treatment System Total Billing Unit Rate Rate Drainage Rate

 Small Residential

 Under 3000 sq. $3.98 $98.42 $102.40 per parcel ft.

 3000-4999 sq. ft $5.78 $143.06 $148.84 per parcel

 5000-6999 sq. ft $7.81 $193.39 $201.20 per parcel

 7000-9999 sq. $9.91 $245.25 $255.16 per parcel ft.

 General Service/Large Residential

 Undeveloped (0-15% impervious)

 Low Impact $0.39 $9.75 $10.14 per 1000 Sq Ft

 Regular $0.65 $16.12 $16.77 per 1000 Sq Ft

 Light (16-35% impervious) - - - -

 Low Impact $0.73 $18.16 $18.89 per 1000 Sq

 Regular $0.97 $24.11 $25.08 per 1000 Sq Ft

 Moderate (36-65% impervious)

 Low Impact $1.14 $28.41 $29.55 per 1000 Sq Ft

 Regular $1.41 $35.02 $36.43 per 1000 Sq Ft

 Heavy (66-85% $1.82 $45.28 $47.10 per 1000 Sq Ft impervious)

 Very Heavy (86-100% $2.16 $53.78 $55.94 per 1000 Sq Ft impervious)

4. SPU shall provide a 10% reduction in drainage rates for properties containing new or remodeled commercial buildings that, after July 27, 2003, install and utilize rainwater harvesting systems that meet the performance requirement that the systems are sized to use or infiltrate the amount of rain that falls on the roofs of such buildings during a one year, 24-hour storm event. A system that involves indoor uses of rainwater must be permitted by Seattle-King County Department of Health to qualify for the rate reduction. A system that relies solely on the capture and indoor use of rainwater shall qualify for the drainage rate reduction only if the system is sized to meet the performance requirement stated above. Qualifying for the drainage rate reduction does not relieve the property owner from the obligation to comply with applicable stormwater and drainage code requirements for the buildings and site.

 E. Each bill shall be rounded ~~up~~ to the nearest ~~even number of~~ cent~~s~~. The minimum annual drainage service charge shall be Five Dollars ($5) per parcel.

 Section 3. Subsection 21.33.050 B of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.33.050 Drainage service charges - Adjustments.

 * * * * *

 B. A request for a bill adjustment may be based on one (1) or more of the following:

 1. The billable area of the parcel is incorrect;

 2. The percent of impervious surface on a ~~non-single-family~~large residential or general service parcel places the parcel in a different rate ~~classification~~category than the ~~classification~~ category assigned by the Utility;

3. The parcel is a large residential or general service parcel which contains highly infiltrative pervious surface and meets all Utility requirements for low-impact rate category designation but has not been properly assigned to such a category by the Utility;

~~3~~4. The parcel meets the definition of exempted property;

~~4~~5. The parcel is wholly or partially outside City of Seattle limits; or

~~5~~6. The drainage service charge is otherwise erroneous in applying the

 terms of this chapter.

 * * * * *

 Section 4. Subsection 21.33.070 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.33.070 Billing and collection procedures.

 A. All parcels subject to a drainage service charge shall be billed annually based upon the rate category and square footage~~acreage~~ applicable to each such parcel as of November 1st of the year prior to the billing year.

 * * * * *

 Section 5. A new Section is added to Chapter 21.33 of the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

21.33.120 Right of entry for inspection

A. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities or his or her duly authorized representatives, bearing proper credentials and identification, may with the consent of the owner or pursuant to lawfully issued warrant enter at all reasonable times upon any and all premises which generate surface or stormwater run-off for the purpose of ascertaining the area and type of such surfaces as required to determine the appropriate assignment of such property to a drainage rate category.

 Section 6. Paragraph 21.76.040 A.2 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.76.040 Low Income Rate Credits.

 * * * * *

 2. Drainage. Eligible recipients residing inside The City of Seattle shall receive the following credits for drainage services based on dwelling type:

~~Effective~~ Effective Effective Effective ~~January 1, 2006~~ January 1, 2007 January 1, 2008 January 1, 2009

 Single-family ~~$5.67 per month~~ $5.92 per month $7.47 per month$8.38 per month Duplex ~~2.84 per month~~ 2.96 per month 3.73 per month4.19 per month Multifamily ~~0.61 per month~~ 0.64 per month 0.80 per month0.90 per month

 * * * * *

 Section 7. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If a court of competent jurisdiction, all appeals having been exhausted or all appeal periods having run, finds any provision of this ordinance to be invalid or unenforceable as to any person or circumstance, then such provision or provisions shall be null and severed from the rest of this ordinance with respect to the particular person or circumstance. The offending provision with respect to all other persons and all other circumstances, as well as all other provisions of this ordinance, shall remain valid and enforceable.

 Section 8. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. ____________________________________ City Clerk SPU DWF rates ORD

 9/27/2007 Version #1i t

```
